Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Third-country nationals Home Immigration Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days Third-country nationals Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Working in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Staying in Luxembourg for less than 3 months as a seasonal worker from a third country Staying and working in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a holder of the EU Blue Card issued by another Member State Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days after a long stay Partage Share by email Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Listen Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Last update 17.11.2025 Application form for a Schengen Visa Last update 18.10.2023 PDF 155 Kb Other language(s) fr Close fr Demande de visa Schengen Nationals from certain non-EU countries who wish to visit, transit through or work in Luxembourg must, before their departure, have a valid travel document with a visa issued by a consular authority from one of the countries in the Schengen area. The visa enables free movement in the Schengen area : Germany, Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Denmark, Spain, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland. The nationality of the non-EU national determines whether or not they are obliged to have a visa. Different types of visa exist depending on the duration and nature of the visit. The Schengen visa must be requested at the consulate of the country the applicant intends to visit , or, if they intend to visit more than one Schengen state , at the consulate of the country of their primary destination (i.e. main purpose of stay or longest stay). If the applicant intends to visit several Schengen states for stays of equal duration , the visa application must be sent to the consulate of the country whose external borders the applicant will cross first when entering the Schengen area . As a general rule, the visa application must be submitted in the country in which the applicant legally resides , at a Luxembourg consulate or a diplomatic mission representing Luxembourg . Should there be no Luxembourg consulate in that country and should Luxembourg not be represented there, the application must be submitted to the consulate with territorial competence for visa applications. The visa application and attached documents must be translated by a sworn translator if they are not drawn up in German, French or English. Who is concerned Nationals from certain countries must have a visa to enter or pass through a country in the Schengen area. Depending on the reason for the visit, they will need: either an airport transit visa (Type A visa) to pass through the international zone in airports, but which does not allow travellers to enter the Schengen area; or a short stay visa (type C visa) to transit through or stay in the Schengen area for a continued or interrupted period of 90 days at the most during each period of 180 days for the purpose of: tourist or family visits; business trips (visiting professional partners, negotiating and concluding contracts, etc.); participating in conferences (conference speakers and university lecturers) exhibitions, fairs or shows; participating in board meetings and general meetings; providing services within the same business group, etc. If the third country national has a residence permit for family members of an EU citizen or a valid residence permit issued by another EU Member State, a visa is not required. Prerequisites In any case, the third country national must, before applying for a visa, have a valid passport which is valid for at least another 3 months after the expiration date of the visa applied for. Costs Costs according to the type of visa Type of visa Normal fee Airport transit visa (A) EUR 90 Short stay visa (C) EUR 90 Long stay visa (D) EUR 50 (for all applicant categories) Some exemptions apply to certain categories of short-stay visas (C): a reduced fee of EUR 35 is granted to nationals of Moldova, Ukraine, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania, Georgia, the Republic of North Macedonia, Armenia and Azerbaijan; children between the age of 6 and 12 are subject to a reduced visa application fee of EUR 45 . In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 as amended, nationals of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of North Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia (excluding holders of passports issued by the Serbian Coordination Directorate) holding biometric passports are exempt from the visa obligation . No visa fee will be charged for: children under 6 years of age; pupils , students and teachers accompanying them on school trips or educational study trips; third country researchers going abroad to carry out scientific research; representatives of non-profit making organisations aged 25 years at most who participate in seminars, conferences, or sports, cultural or educational events; family members of an EU/EEA national; certain categories of nationals of Moldova , Ukraine , Serbia , Montenegro , Bosnia-Herzegovina , Albania , Georgia , the Republic of North Macedonia , Armenia , Azerbaijan and Cape Verde . How to proceed Applying for a short stay visa (C) Third country nationals who are subject to a visa obligation and who wish to stay in Luxembourg for less than 90 days over a period of 180 days for the purpose of business, family or tourist visits, etc. must apply for a short stay visa (C). Visa applications should in principle be lodged at least 15 calendar days before the intended visit and cannot be lodged earlier than 6 months before the start of the intended visit. Holders of a multiple-entry visa may lodge the application before the expiry of the visa valid for a period of at least 6 months. The applicant must submit a completed and signed Schengen visa application (see 'Online services and forms') in person at: the Luxembourg diplomatic mission or consulate in their country of residence; or or, failing that, the embassy or consulate of the country in the Schengen area which represents Luxembourg for the issuance of visas. The application must be accompanied by the following documents : 2 recent and identical identity photos; a valid passport or a travel document accepted in the Schengen area, which is valid for at least 3 months after the expiry date of the requested visa; supporting documents associated with the purpose of the journey, such as: a legalised statement of financial support (French, Pdf, 332 Kb) from the reference person in Luxembourg. It should be noted that the statement of financial support is not mandatory. But it is strongly recommended to submit this document in order to prove that the applicant is financially supported by a Luxembourg resident; official letter of invitation for a business visit; a hotel reservation; a return airline ticket; proof of sufficient means of subsistence (bank account statements, cash, credit cards, etc.). In certain cases, this proof can be replaced by a legalised statement of financial support from a reference person in Luxembourg; proof of legal residence in the usual country of residence; health insurance covering the travel period. Before sending the financial statement of support to the third country national for whom they are acting as guarantor, the guarantor must: have their signature officially authenticated on the form at their commune of residence; send the form to the Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office ( stay of less than 90 days ), together with: the last 3 salary slips or a document stating their monthly income; a copy of the passport or national identity card; if they are a foreign national, proof of lawful residence in Luxembourg; a copy of the valid passport of the non-EU national being cared for. If the application is accepted, the guarantor receives an official stamped copy of the document. The foreign national then has 6 months to use this document to apply for a visa. The issuance of the visa alone does not necessarily give the right of entry or stay in Luxembourg. Other supporting documentation, in relation to the purpose of the visit, may be requested. Decisions on applications will be taken within 15 calendar days of the date of submission . In particular cases, namely when further scrutiny of the application is needed or if the application is submitted to a consulate of a State representing Luxembourg , this period may be extended up to a maximum of 30 calendar days . As an exception , when additional documentation is needed in specific cases, the period may be extended up to a maximum of 45 calendar days . When the visa is granted, it is affixed in the passport in the form of a visa sticker. The type C visa allows for stays for a duration not exceeding 90 days over any 180-day period. The visa can be issued for one or several entries, depending on the reasons of stay. The Schengen calculator may help keep track of the number of days authorised in the Schengen area, based on the travel dates. A user guide for the calculator is also available. The results shown by this tool are not legally binding . It does not give the holder the right to carry out a paid activity in Luxembourg. In this case, the person must apply for a type D visa. Possession of a visa does not confer an irrevocable right of entry . The holder of a visa is required to show evidence, at external borders , that they fulfil the conditions of entry in accordance with the Schengen Borders Code (article 6) . Note that the Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office is competent for visa applications regarding stays not exceeding 90 days over any 180-day period . Refusal to issue the type C visa This decision is notified to the applicant by the consulate. Applicants may lodge an appeal against this decision with the administrative tribunal . The appeal must be filed by a court lawyer within 3 months from the notification of the decision. The information on possibilities of recourse can be found on the refusal form. Extension of the type C visa When applying for a visa extension, the applicant must show that for reasons of force majeure or for humanitarian reasons they cannot leave Luxembourg before the expiry of their visa or the authorised period of stay. As a rule, the visa can only be extended if the applicant has stayed less than 90 days in the Schengen area, in the course of the past 180 days , and if their current visa is not expired . The application has to be sent to the Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office . Note that the Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office is competent for visa applications regarding stays not exceeding 90 days over any 180-day period . For applications concerning a stay of more than 3 months , the competent authority is the Department for foreigners at the General Department of immigration . Staying less than 90 days and carrying out a paid activity Third-country nationals subject to a visa obligation who wish to work in Luxembourg during a stay of less than 90 days must apply for a short stay visa (C). Before submitting their application for a type C visa, third-country nationals must apply for a work permit to the General Department of immigration of the Ministry of Home Affairs, from their country of origin, unless they are expressly exempted by law. The following persons do not need to apply for a work permit if they are employed for less than 3 months per calendar year: staff from fairground attractions, circuses and other travelling establishments; workers in the entertainment industry without regular employment; athletes; invited guest speakers, university lecturers and researchers; persons travelling for business; persons who intend to stay in the territory to provide services, excluding any services provided under a subcontract; persons holding a valid EU Blue Card issued by another Member State. Online services and forms Data protection Downloadable forms Note: view tips for using PDF forms . Application form for a Schengen Visa Last update 18.10.2023 PDF 155 Kb Other language(s) fr Close fr Demande de visa Schengen Who to contact Hide map Show map Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office (BPVL) Address: 6, rue de l'Ancien Athénée L-1144 Luxembourg Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 88 300 Monday to Friday from 8.30 to 11.30 and from 13.00 to 16.00 Email address: service.passeports@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.visas@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.legalisation@mae.etat.lu Website: https://mae.gouvernement.lu/en/services-aux-citoyens/passeport.html Closed ⋅ Opens monday at 8.30 Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Monday: 8.30 to 16.00 Tuesday: 8.30 to 16.00 Wednesday: 8.30 to 16.00 Thursday: 8.30 to 16.00 Friday: 8.30 to 16.00 expire 0 millisec --> Show on map Immigration Directorate - Department for Foreigners Hide map Show map Ministry of Home Affairs General Department of immigration - Department for foreigners Address: 26, route d’Arlon L-1140 Luxembourg B.P. 752, L-2017 Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 84 040 Fax: (+352) 22 16 08 Email address: immigration.public@mai.etat.lu Website: https://maint.gouvernement.lu/en.html Closed ⋅ Opens monday at 9.00 Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Monday: 9.00 to 12.00 et 14.00 to 16.00 Tuesday: 9.00 to 12.00 et 14.00 to 16.00 Wednesday: 9.00 to 12.00 et 14.00 to 16.00 Thursday: 9.00 to 12.00 et 14.00 to 16.00 Friday: 9.00 to 12.00 et 14.00 to 16.00 expire 0 millisec --> Registration and issuing of biometric residence permits: only by appointment. Show on map Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office (BPVL-MAEE) Hide map Show map Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Passport, Visa and Legalisation Office (BPVL) Address: 6, rue de l'Ancien Athénée L-1144 Luxembourg Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 88 300 Monday to Friday from 8.30 to 11.30 and from 13.00 to 16.00 Email address: service.passeports@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.visas@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.legalisation@mae.etat.lu Website: https://mae.gouvernement.lu/en/services-aux-citoyens/passeport.html Closed ⋅ Opens monday at 8.30 Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Monday: 8.30 to 16.00 Tuesday: 8.30 to 16.00 Wednesday: 8.30 to 16.00 Thursday: 8.30 to 16.00 Friday: 8.30 to 16.00 expire 0 millisec --> Show on map Related procedures and links Procedures Declaring a move to a new commune of residence Links Further information List of countries whose citizens require a visa on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Luxembourg diplomatic and consular missions on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Travel documents for non-EU nationals on Your Europe Travel documents for non-EU family members on Your Europe Family residence rights on Your Europe Students - residence rights on Your Europe Jobseekers - residence rights on Your Europe Présence consulaire des Etats Membres, accords de représentation et formes de coopération prévues pour les demandes de visa, ainsi que réception des demandes de visa par le consul honoraire ou par des prestataires de services extérieurs Excel • 98 Kb The Schengen visa on the website of the Council of the European Union and the European Council Legal references Loi modifiée du 29 août 2008 portant sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Règlement grand-ducal modifié du 5 septembre 2008 portant exécution de certaines dispositions relatives aux formalités administratives prévues par la loi du 29 août 2008 sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Your opinion matters to us 23 avis déposés Tell us what you think of this page. You can leave us your feedback on how to improve this page. You will not receive a reply to your feedback. Please use the contact form for any specific questions you might have. Fields marked with an asterisk ( * ) are mandatory . Did you find what you were looking for? * Yes Partially No What information were you looking for? How would you rate this page? * Very poor Very good How can we improve it? Leave a comment to help us improve this page. Do not provide any personal information such as your email address, name, telephone number, etc. 0/1000 Send your opinion Data protection Please rate this page Your opinion has been submitted successfully! Thank you for your contribution. If you need help or have any questions, please use the contact form. Would you like to help us make digital public services more user-friendly by submitting your suggestions for improvement? Then visit Zesumme Vereinfachen, the online participation platform dedicated to administrative simplification in Luxembourg. Let's simplify things together An error occurred Oops, an error has occurred. Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
