The income tax return for natural persons (taxation by assessment) - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Income tax return Home Taxation Income tax Income tax return Income tax return The income tax return for natural persons (taxation by assessment) Filing an income tax return for natural persons via the electronic assistant on MyGuichet.lu Opting for a tax treatment equivalent to that of a resident (tax assimilation) Partage Share by email Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Listen The income tax return for natural persons (taxation by assessment) Last update 07.04.2026 Summary: In general, you may be subject to various tax obligations if you receive taxable income in Luxembourg (such as a salary or pension). In some cases, you are required to file a personal income tax return (known as 'taxation by assessment'). Who is concerned: you will find detailed information on persons subject to taxation by assessment on the website of the Luxembourg Inland Revenue ( Administration des contributions directes - ACD). Deadlines: the tax return must be submitted no later than 31 December of the year following the tax year. Consequently, for the 2024 tax year, the deadline is Wednesday 31 December 2025. Déclaration pour l’impôt sur le revenu de l’année 2025 – Modèle 100 (dépôt PDF) Go to online services and forms Taxpayers subject to taxation by assessment must report their income by filing an income tax return for natural persons (form 100). In order to obtain the reimbursement of any excess tax withheld at source , employees or pensioners can - upon request - regularise their tax situation according to their personal situation: by assessment (form 100); or or by way of annual adjustment (form 163 R). Subject to certain specific eligibility conditions , you can settle the tax by means of an assessment via the electronic assistant on the secure My Guichet.lu platform. You can fill in your income tax return using the online assistant. If you cannot use the online assistant, you can file your income tax return by sending in 'form 100' (to be downloaded under ' Online services and forms ' below or from the ACD website ): electronically via the My Guichet.lu procedure for PDF submissions; or by post to the relevant tax office . If you decide to use the PDF form, please follow the instructions carefully to avoid calculation and display problems . You can find more information on this subject in our help article . Who is concerned You will find detailed information on persons subject to taxation by assessment on the website of the Luxembourg Inland Revenue (ACD). Deadlines Regardless of how you file your tax return (electronically or by post), you must submit it by 31 December of the year following the tax year in question at the latest. Example: for tax year N, the tax return is due by 31 December of year N+1 at the latest. For the 2024 tax year, the tax return submission period therefore runs from 7 April 2026 to 31 December 2025 . You must always respect the specific deadlines for correspondence sent by the various ACD departments. In the event of failure to comply with the stated deadlines , the tax office may apply: supplementary taxes; late payment interest; or a penalty payment . Taxpayers who refuse to file their tax return will force the tax office to determine the tax liability using the estimated assessment procedure ( taxation d'office par voie d'estimation ). How to proceed General principles of taxation Residents Non-residents The resident taxpayer must report their worldwide income ( exempt and non-exempt income ). Exempt income is not taxable as such , but may be taken into account in determining the applicable tax rate for non-exempt taxable income. Simple example illustrating the case of a single (unmarried) taxpayer (tax class 1): Taxable income in Luxembourg (salary): EUR 40,000 (indigenous income = income from Luxembourg source) Rental income from a property located in a country with which Luxembourg has a double taxation agreement (tax-exempt income in Luxembourg): EUR 10,000. The total taxable income taken into account to calculate the tax rate: EUR 10,000 + 40,000 = EUR 50,000. According to the 2017 income tax scale , the tax due for an income of EUR 50,000 (tax class 1) amounts to EUR 9,106. Thus, the overall tax rate is 9,106 / 50,000 = 18.21 %. To this tax rate is added the 7 % contribution to the employment fund, which brings the applicable rate to 19.48 % . This rate is applied only to non-exempt income , i.e., in this case to EUR 40,000. Tax due on taxable income in Luxembourg, based on the tax scale: 40,000 × 19.48 % = EUR 7,792 . Non-resident taxpayers who are taxable in Luxembourg can opt to be treated as Luxembourg residents for tax purposes , i.e. they choose to be treated as a taxpayer residing in Luxembourg . They will then be entitled to the same tax deductions and tax credits available to resident taxpayers. If a non-resident taxpayer chooses not to take up this option , they will be liable for tax only on their income from Luxembourg sources . In that case, only a limited number of expenses are tax deductible. Non-resident taxpayers who opt to be treated as Luxembourg residents for tax purposes must report both their exempt and their non-exempt income (e.g., income received from the rental of a property located in Belgium, the salary of a spouse employed in France, etc.) in their tax return. In this case, the foreign exempt income is not taxable as such , but is taken into account in determining the applicable tax rate for the non-exempt taxable income. Simple example illustrating the case of a single (unmarried) taxpayer (tax class 1) : Taxable income in Luxembourg (salary): EUR 40,000 (indigenous income = income from Luxembourg source) Income from paid employment originating in a third country with which Luxembourg has a tax treaty against double taxation (exempt income in Luxembourg): EUR 10,000. The total taxable income taken into account to calculate the tax rate is 40,000 + 10,000 = EUR 50,000. According to the 2017 income tax scale , the tax due for an income of EUR 50,000 (tax class 1) amounts to EUR 9,106. Thus, the overall tax rate is 9,106 / 50,000 = 18.21%. This tax rate is increased by the 7% contribution to the employment fund, bringing the applicable rate to 19.48% . This rate is applied only to non-exempt income , i.e., in this case, to the EUR 40,000. Tax due on taxable income in Luxembourg, based on the tax scale: 40,000 × 19.48 % = EUR 7,792. Joint taxation Depending on their situation (married taxpayers, partners or single taxpayers, with or without children), taxpayers are taxed either jointly or individually. Residents Non-residents Taxpayers who are taxed jointly only file a single tax return listing all of their income. Non-resident taxpayers who are taxed jointly must file a single tax return for all of their domestic income taxable in Luxembourg. The tax is determined on the basis of the taxpayers' aggregate joint net income, and is payable by them as a unit. Determination of taxable income Residents Non-residents Taxpayers are liable for tax in Luxembourg on the income that they earn, which is subdivided into 8 categories : business profit; agricultural and forestry profits; earnings from self-employment; net income from paid employment ; net income from pensions or annuities; net investment income; net rental property income; and net miscellaneous income. Taxable income is determined by adding together the different categories of net income, and deducting special expenses , such as: allowances paid to a divorced spouse or other permanent allowances; interest payments on consumer loans used to finance the purchase of a car, movable assets, etc. (note that interest in connection with existing buildings or those under construction are not considered as special expenses, and must be reported on sheet L, form 100); insurance contributions and premiums ; contributions to supplementary pension schemes (LRCP); gifts or donations . Non-resident taxpayers, whether they are treated as resident taxpayers or not, are taxed in Luxembourg only on the income they earn in Luxembourg (i.e., their domestic income). That income is subdivided into 8 categories : business profits; agricultural and forestry profits; earnings from self-employment; net income from paid employment; net income from pensions or annuities; net investment income; net rental property income; and net miscellaneous income. The taxable income is determined by the sum of the net domestic income, after deduction of: the minimum flat-rate; the mandatory social contributions; supplementary pension insurance premiums (LRCP). For non-resident taxpayers who have opted to be treated as residents for tax purposes , the tax rate is determined by adding together the different categories of net domestic income, and deducting special expenses such as: allowances paid to a divorced spouse or other permanent allowances ; interest payments on consumer loans used to finance the purchase of a car, movable assets, etc. (note that interests paid in connection with existing buildings or those under construction are not considered as special expenses, and must be reported on sheet L, form 100); voluntary and private insurance premiums and payments ; gifts and donations , etc. Income subject to tax (taxable income) is equal to the income deferred at the end of the tax form, minus certain deductions (e.g.: allowance for extraordinary expenses borne by the taxpayer). This adjusted taxable income is then matched against the income brackets in a progressive income tax scale . Submission of the tax return In principle, you will receive the following at the beginning of the second quarter of the current year: an invitation to download and complete the tax declaration forms available on this page under ' Online services and forms ' or on the ACD website; or a paper form ( form 100 ) by post; or a simple pre-filled tax return. In 2025, only taxpayers who just have to declare income from 'salaries and pensions' in the absence of any deductions other than the minimum flat-rate deduction received a letter at the beginning of March offering them the option of opting for the simple tax return. If they agree, they will receive a pre-filled proposal for the simple tax return at the beginning of May, which they will need to check and validate. You must submit your completed and signed tax return: electronically via the My Guichet.lu procedure for PDF submissions; or by post to the relevant tax office . Even if you have received a paper form, you can fill it in on your computer and send it, together with the attachments, to the ACD via the My Guichet.lu procedure for PDF submissions. If you wish to complete your tax return using the electronic assistant , please consult our explanatory information page on this subject to find out if you belong to the target audience. Attachments Residents Non-residents The declarant must attach certain supporting documents to their declaration: a compensation certificate (annual salary statement) and/or annual pension statement; a certificate showing the amount of interest paid on a mortgage or personal loan taken out during the tax year in question (annual financial statements); a civil partnership certificate when joint taxation is requested for the first time for the tax year in question. The declarant must attach certain supporting documents to his tax return: a compensation certificate (annual salary statement) and/or annual pension statement; a certificate showing the amount of interest paid on a mortgage or personal loan taken out during the tax year in question (annual financial statements); a civil partnership certificate when joint taxation is requested for the first time for the tax year in question. Declarants must also include: all supporting documents which substantiate their personal situation or any other information provided in the declaration; proof of income they receive in their country of residence . In our tutorial, we use screenshots to explain, step-by-step, the different ways of adding attachments to a procedure with authentication . Adding attachments to a procedure with authentication The Luxembourg Inland Revenue (ACD) reserves the right to request additional supporting documents as part of the process of verifying any information, statements, applications, declarations, claims or appeals submitted to its offices. Omission or error In the event of an oversight or an error in the tax return—regardless of whether the return is sent by post or electronically—you should contact the competent tax office . You must send any request for correction in writing to the competent tax office no later than 3 months after submitting your tax return. Setting the amount of tax payable The income tax payable is determined by matching the rounded-off adjusted taxable income against the income brackets in a progressive tax scale . Owing to the progressive nature of the scale, taxpayers with higher income pay proportionally more tax than taxpayers with lower income. Tutorials Adding attachments to a procedure with authentication Online services and forms Data protection Filing of a PDF Note: view tips for using PDF forms . Déclaration pour l’impôt sur le revenu de l’année 2025 – Modèle 100 (dépôt PDF) Démarche dédiée au dépôt PDF dans l’espace privé Other language(s) de Fermer de Einkommensteuererklärung für das Jahr 2025 – Vordruck 100 (Einreichung im PDF-Format) Déclaration pour l’impôt sur le revenu de l’année 2025 – Modèle 100 sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Pdf Other language(s) de Fermer de Einkommensteuererklärung für das Jahr 2025 – Vordruck 100 Electronic assistant Income tax return 2025 – Form 100 Electronic assistant in the private eSpace Other language(s) fr de Close fr Déclaration pour l’impôt sur le revenu de l’année 2025 – Modèle 100 de Einkommensteuererklärung für das Jahr 2025 – Vordruck 100 Income tax return 2025 – Form 100 Electronic assistant in the business eSpace Other language(s) fr de Close fr Déclaration pour l’impôt sur le revenu de l’année 2025 – Modèle 100 de Einkommensteuererklärung für das Jahr 2025 – Vordruck 100 Contrat de mandat – Modèle 101 sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Pdf Other language(s) de Fermer de Mandatsvertrag – Vordruck 101 You can find online assistants and forms for previous tax years in the procedures catalogue on My Guichet.lu as well as on the ACD website . Who to contact Hide map Show map Luxembourg Inland Revenue (ACD) Contact Centre Address: 33, rue de Gasperich L-5826 Hesperange Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 53 000 'Electronic assistant’ helpline available Monday to Friday from 7:45 to 17:00 Contact form Show on map Related procedures and links Procedures Adjustment of withholding tax on salaries by annual adjustment as a resident taxpayer Filing an income tax return for natural persons via the electronic assistant on MyGuichet.lu Links Further information Imposition par voie d’assiette (impôt sur le revenu) sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes Calcul d’une rémunération mensuelle nette sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Mémento fiscal - Résumé des impôts directs perçus sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Barèmes sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Calculatrice fiscale sur le site du ministère des Finances Délais sur le site de l’Administration des contributions directes (ACD) Legal references Loi modifiée du 4 décembre 1967 concernant l’impôt sur le revenu Your opinion matters to us 23 avis déposés Tell us what you think of this page. You can leave us your feedback on how to improve this page. You will not receive a reply to your feedback. Please use the contact form for any specific questions you might have. Fields marked with an asterisk ( * ) are mandatory . Did you find what you were looking for? * Yes Partially No What information were you looking for? How would you rate this page? * Very poor Very good How can we improve it? Leave a comment to help us improve this page. Do not provide any personal information such as your email address, name, telephone number, etc. 0/1000 Send your opinion Data protection Please rate this page Your opinion has been submitted successfully! Thank you for your contribution. If you need help or have any questions, please use the contact form. Would you like to help us make digital public services more user-friendly by submitting your suggestions for improvement? Then visit Zesumme Vereinfachen, the online participation platform dedicated to administrative simplification in Luxembourg. Let's simplify things together An error occurred Oops, an error has occurred. Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
