Registration with social security - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Employees of self-employed workers and their family Home Health & Social security Registration with social security Employees of self-employed workers and their family Registration with social security Luxembourg social security card / European Health Insurance Card Partage Share by email Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Listen Registration with social security Last update 07.07.2017 Entry declaration for self-employed workers Go to online services and forms Enrolment with the Luxembourg social security services is mandatory for any person engaged in a paid professional activity in Luxembourg. Anyone residing in Luxembourg and carrying out their activity outside Luxembourg may also be affiliated to the Luxembourg social security. The registration with the Joint Social Security Centre ( Centre commun de la sécurité sociale - CCSS) aims to provide the salaried or self-employed worker with sickness and maternity insurance, pension insurance, accident insurance and long-term care insurance . The CCSS is the body that handles enrolments and the collection of contributions for all social security bodies. Thus, any person engaged in a paid professional activity is enrolled with the CCSS, and is entitled to sickness and maternity insurance benefits through their health insurance fund. The different health insurance funds are: the National Health Fund ( Caisse nationale de santé - CNS or ' Gesondheetskees '), for the private sector; the Health insurance fund for civil servants and state employees ( Caisse de maladie des fonctionnaires et employés publics - CMFEP), for the public sector; the Health insurance fund for civil servants and communal employees ( Caisse de maladie des fonctionnaires et employés communaux - CMFEC), for the public sector; the CFL Health Insurance Fund ( Entraide médicale des CFL – EMCFL ), for Luxembourg railway workers. For employees, social contributions to the various branches of social insurance are deducted at source by the employer from the worker's pay packet. Additionally, certain people may be co-insured under another person's health insurance, provided they do not have an individual health insurance policy. After enrolment with the CCSS, or when the co-insurance policy is enacted, the person in question will automatically be issued with a social security card. Who is concerned Main policyholder Anyone engaged in paid employment (either as an employee or a 'temp' worker) or in a self-employed capacity in Luxembourg must be enrolled with the CCSS as a main policyholder. Co-insured parties Dependent family members covered by the main policyholder's insurance in Luxembourg are entitled to health insurance coverage as co-insured parties, provided that they are not already personally enrolled themselves. The main policyholder's health insurance coverage extends to: their spouse; their partner; relatives by blood or marriage up to the 3rd degree who, in the absence of a spouse or partner, belong to the main policyholder's household; children entitled to family allowance; children under 30 years of age whose resources do not exceed the social inclusion income (REVIS) for a single person. Family members of covered cross-border workers living in France, Germany or Belgium may, under certain conditions, obtain healthcare coverage in Luxembourg. Special cases Occasional workers The following are considered occasional workers, and are therefore exempt from enrolling for social security coverage: people who engage in a professional activity on an occasional and irregular basis ; for a specified length of time, established in advance, which must not exceed 3 months per calendar year. Persons engaged in self-employed work as a main or ancillary activity are also exempt from enrolling for social security coverage when their professional income does not exceed 1/3 of the annual minimum social wage . These persons may nevertheless enrol voluntarily for social security insurance, provided they are resident in Luxembourg. Non-residents – Cross-border workers In order to receive healthcare benefits in their country of residence, people working but not living in Luxembourg must also enrol with a health insurance fund in their country of residence. Residents working in another EU Member State Luxembourg residents working outside the country may register with the CNS. Employees working in several Member States Luxembourg residents who work in several EU Member States must enrol for social security insurance in Luxembourg provided that a substantial part of their work is in Luxembourg. The notion of 'substantial part of a person's work' is assessed, for employees, on the basis of their working time and/or salary, and for self-employed workers, on the basis of turnover, working time, income and services provided. On the other hand, when a substantial part of their activity is carried out in another EU Member State, a Luxembourg resident may still receive benefits in kind in Luxembourg. Recipients of replacement income Persons who receive certain types of replacement income (social inclusion income - REVIS, pension) and students are enrolled on a mandatory or voluntary basis, and as such, are entitled to healthcare insurance coverage. How to proceed Declaration of start of employment Procedure for persons engaged in paid employment in Luxembourg Within 8 days of an employee's starting work, their employer must file a declaration of start of employment for private-sector employees , temporary workers or public-sector employees with the CCSS. Any person who is declared by their employer in this way is automatically issued a social security card. In order for non-residents to be able to enrol with the health insurance fund in their country of residence, the competent Luxembourg fund issues a certification of entitlement to health and maternity insurance benefits in kind. Procedure for self-employed workers Self-employed worker operating in their own name must enrol with the CCSS using a new self-employed worker declaration form. Any person who files a declaration with the CCSS as a self-employed worker is automatically issued a social security card. In order for non-residents to be able to enrol with the health insurance fund in their country of residence, the competent Luxembourg fund issues a certification of entitlement to health and maternity insurance benefits in kind. Procedure for persons entitled to health insurance in their capacity as a co-insured party A person who is not personally enrolled for mandatory health insurance coverage is entitled to healthcare benefits in kind as a co-insured party, as a member of the main policyholder's family. Co-insured persons can only be covered through one main policyholder's insurance. That main policyholder must be the person in whose household the beneficiary lives, or the person who is responsible for the beneficiary's upbringing and caters to the latter's needs. When more than one person satisfies these conditions (e.g. when both parents are employed in Luxembourg), the older (or oldest) of these persons is held to be the main policyholder. To acquire co-insured status, the main policyholder, or the person wishing to be co-insured, must file a simple application , specifying the main policyholder's identity and their connection to the co-insured individual. The application may be submitted to the appropriate health insurance fund: in person , at the health insurance fund's offices; by phone ; by email ; by fax ; by post . Supporting documents, such as a copy of the family record book or a university attendance certificate, must be attached to the application. For non-residents, only the legislation of their country of residence is applicable. The health insurance fund in the country of residence, or indeed any other competent foreign organisation, sends the competent Luxembourg fund a document certifying that the family members are enrolled and covered through the main policyholder enrolled in Luxembourg. Luxembourg residents who are not personally insured and are unable to acquire co-insured status may take out continued or optional health insurance on a voluntary basis . For further information, they should contact the CCSS. Please note that, in addition to their enrolment with a health insurance fund, insured parties may also opt for additional private insurance . The certificate of co-insurance can be requested via My Guichet.lu. This online procedure can be carried out with or without authentication using a LuxTrust product or an electronic identity card ( eID ). This online procedure is also available in the MyGuichet.lu app. If you have linked your mobile device to your MyGuichet.lu account , you can also do it from your smartphone or tablet. De-registration (declaration of end of employment) When the insured person no longer meets the conditions for affiliation, a declaration of de-registration must be made to the CCSS within 8 days: by the employer ( for employees ); or by the insured individual ( for the self-employed ). The most common reason for de-enrolment is the termination of an employment contract or the cessation of self-employed activity. However, if the person has been enrolled for a continuous period of 6 months (discounting interruptions of fewer than 8 days), they will continue to be entitled to healthcare benefits for the current month and the subsequent 3 months. This period may be extended by a further 3 months if the insured was undergoing medical treatment at the time of de-enrolment. When the main policyholder is de-enrolled, their co-insured parties will also be de-enrolled. Luxembourg residents then have the option of taking out voluntary health insurance with the CCSS. For non-residents , the competent Luxembourg health insurance fund notifies the health insurance fund in the country of residence of the worker's de-enrolment. At that point, the non-resident must apply to the health insurance fund in their place of residence to remedy their situation. To be granted the extension of entitlement to benefits in kind in Luxembourg—covering the month of de-registration and the subsequent 3 months, or the additional 3 months if the insured was undergoing medical treatment—non-resident workers must present a certificate issued by the health insurance fund of their country of residence, establishing that they are not enrolled in their country of residence. Online services and forms Data protection Online services Entry declaration for self-employed workers Other language(s) fr de Close fr Déclaration d’entrée pour travailleurs indépendants de Anmeldung für Selbständige Application for a co-insurance certificate Other language(s) fr de Close fr Demande de certificat de coassurance de Antrag auf Ausstellung einer Mitversicherungsbescheinigung Health insurance - My situation Access your health insurance data Other language(s) fr de Close fr Caisse de maladie - Ma situation de Krankenkasse - Meine Situation Downloadable forms Note: view tips for using PDF forms . Registration form for self-employed persons Last update 16.01.2024 PDF 375 Kb Other language(s) fr de Close fr Déclaration d'entrée pour travailleurs indépendants de Anmeldung für Selbstständige Déclaration de sortie pour travailleurs indépendants Pdf Other language(s) de Fermer de Abmeldung für Selbständige Who to contact Hide map Show map Joint Social Security Centre (CCSS) Address: 4, rue Mercier L-2144 Luxembourg L-2975 Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 40 14 11 Website: https://ccss.lu/en.html Contact form The reception desks can only be visited by appointment . Show on map Joint Social Security Centre (CCSS) Reception desks Address: 4, rue Mercier L-2144 Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 40 14 11 Website: https://ccss.lu/en.html By appointment only: Closed ⋅ Opens Monday at 8.00 Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Monday: 8.00 to 16.00 Tuesday: 8.00 to 16.00 Wednesday: 8.00 to 16.00 Thursday: 8.00 to 16.00 Friday: 8.00 to 16.00 Contact form Show on map Related procedures and links Procedures Enrolling for voluntary health and maternity insurance Luxembourg social security card / European Health Insurance Card Links Further information Assurance maladie-maternité sur le site de l'Inspection générale de la sécurité sociale Social security systems in the EU on the Your Europe portal Social security on Your Europe Social security cover abroad on Your Europe Legal references Code de la sécurité sociale Code du travail Your opinion matters to us 23 avis déposés Tell us what you think of this page. You can leave us your feedback on how to improve this page. You will not receive a reply to your feedback. Please use the contact form for any specific questions you might have. Fields marked with an asterisk ( * ) are mandatory . Did you find what you were looking for? * Yes Partially No What information were you looking for? How would you rate this page? * Very poor Very good How can we improve it? Leave a comment to help us improve this page. Do not provide any personal information such as your email address, name, telephone number, etc. 0/1000 Send your opinion Data protection Please rate this page Your opinion has been submitted successfully! Thank you for your contribution. If you need help or have any questions, please use the contact form. Would you like to help us make digital public services more user-friendly by submitting your suggestions for improvement? Then visit Zesumme Vereinfachen, the online participation platform dedicated to administrative simplification in Luxembourg. Let's simplify things together An error occurred Oops, an error has occurred. Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
