Medical check-up for third-country nationals - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Common procedures for all third-country nationals Home Immigration Staying in Luxembourg for more than 90 days Third-country national Common procedures for all third-country nationals Medical check-up for third-country nationals Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Partage Share by email Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Listen Medical check-up for third-country nationals Last update 21.03.2022 Go to online services and forms In the framework of an application for a residence permit , third-country nationals who already hold a temporary authorisation to stay must undergo a medical check consisting of: a medical examination by a doctor established in Luxembourg and authorised to work as a general practitioner, a practitioner specialised in internal medicine or paediatrics; and a tuberculosis (TB) screening performed at a medical analysis laboratory (with a prescription from the doctor who performed the medical examination) or at the Health and Social Welfare League ( Ligue médico-sociale - LMS), for any person aged 2 years and over ; and a tuberculosis screening using a tuberculin test at the Health and Social Welfare League ( Ligue médico-sociale - LMS) for children aged between 2 months and 2 years . After receiving the results of these examinations, the Health Inspection of the Health Directorate ( Direction de la Santé ) will issue a medical certificate , which will be sent to the General Department of immigration of the Ministry of Home Affairs to allow the residence permit application to be processed. Residence permits will not be granted to applicants who refuse to undergo the required medical check-up. Who is concerned The medical check is mandatory for all third-country nationals (i.e. from a country that is neither an EU Member State nor a country treated as such - Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland) who wish to reside in Luxembourg for more than 3 months within the context of an application for a residence permit . Exception: the medical check-up is not mandatory for third-country nationals who: are family members of an EU citizen or a national of a country treated as such; or are long-term residents in another Member State, as is the member of their family. Prerequisites Before arriving in Luxembourg, nationals of non-EU countries must hold a temporary authorisation to stay for: a salaried worker ; a self-employed worker; a highly qualified worker ; an athlete or a sports coach; student ; a trainee ; researcher ; seasonal worker ; a volunteer worker ; pupil ; family member of a third country national ; private reasons . Holders of a temporary authorisation to stay must then, within 3 months of this certificate being issued , enter Luxembourg or apply for a visa , if a visa is required. Deadlines Third-country nationals who hold a temporary authorisation to stay must apply for a residence permit at the latest 3 months after their arrival in Luxembourg. The doctor who issues the temporary medical certificate must send it to the Health Inspection at the Health Directorate within one month . The Health Directorate must then issue the final medical certificate. Applications for residence permits can only be processed by the Immigration Directorate once the corresponding medical certificates have been received. Applicants are therefore advised to undergo the medical examination and the TB screening test as soon as possible. Costs The costs of the medical examinations and issuance of the medical certificate are to be paid by the third-country national . How to proceed Medical examination Third-country nationals must consult a doctor established in Luxembourg to undergo a medical examination. The medical examination must be carried out by a doctor established in the country and authorised to practice medicine as a general practitioner, a specialist in internal medicine or a paediatrician. The medical examination must comprise: a general clinical examination carried out by a doctor who may, where applicable, be assisted by medical specialists and request additional examinations; a blood test to check for sexually transmitted diseases, depending on the clinical symptomatology, excluding HIV/AIDS; a check to ensure vaccinations are up to date; a capillary glucose test for people with a risk of developing diabetes, due to their medical history, age or state of health; a urine test including checks for protein and blood, depending on the clinical symptomatology. The medical examination is intended to detect the following diseases or conditions: infectious diseases listed in the International Health Regulations 2005 (IHR); mental problems needing treatment and which are likely to compromise the safety of others or pose a serious threat to public order; known drug addiction needing long-term medical treatment; health problem that is clearly in contradiction with the reason for residing in Luxembourg (in particular undertaking paid employment). Following the examination, the doctor issues a temporary medical certificate (form provided by the Ministry of Health and Social Security), which they then send as soon as possible ( within one month at the most ) in a sealed envelope to the Health Inspection at the Health Directorate. TB screening Third-country nationals must go to a medical analysis laboratory of their choice (for persons aged 2 years and more) or to the Health and Social Welfare League ( Ligue Médico-sociale - LMS) to undergo a TB screening test : For children between 2 months and 2 years of age , the test must be performed at the Health and Social Welfare League (LMS). The screening is to check for active, contagious TB or TB that is likely to develop. Following the screening, the medical analysis laboratory or the LMS confirm to the Health Inspection at the Health Directorate, that the screening has been performed. Medical certificate After having obtained the medical certificate from the doctor and the confirmation from the medical analysis laboratory or the LMS, the Health Inspection sends the official medical certificate to the Immigration Directorate. The official medical certificate does not contain any medical data and simply indicates whether or not the medical conditions required for residency are fulfilled. The medical certificate is one of the documents required for the issuance of a residence permit, therefore applications for residence permits can only be processed by the Immigration Directorate once the certificate has been received. Online services and forms Data protection Downloadable forms Note: view tips for using PDF forms . Demande en délivrance d’un titre de séjour pour ressortissant de pays tiers Last update 06.01.2026 PDF 96 Kb Liste des observations sur les titres de séjour pour ressortissants de pays tiers Last update 26.06.2024 PDF 330 Kb Who to contact Hide map Show map Health Directorate Health Inspection Department Address: 2A, rue Thomas Edison L-1445 Strassen Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 85 650 Website: https://dirsante.gouvernement.lu/fr/la-direction/structure/inspection-sanitaire.html Show on map Hide map Show map Early Years Support Services Health and Social Welfare League ( Ligue médico-sociale ) Address: 21-23, rue Henri VII L-1725 Luxembourg Luxembourg Phone: Ligue médico-sociale ) - New window" target="_blank" href="tel:(+352)2200991" rel=" noopener"> (+352) 22 00 99 1 Fax: (+352) 47 50 97 Website: Ligue médico-sociale ) - New window" target="_blank" itemprop="website" rel=" noopener" href="http://www.ligue.lu/support/centres-medico-sociaux/"> http://www.ligue.lu/support/centres-medico-sociaux/ Ligue médico-sociale</i>) - Show on map"> Show on map Related procedures and links Procedures Conditions of residence for self-employed third-country workers Third-country national Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Links Further information Health and Social Welfare League Website Visa and immigration on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade List of countries whose citizens require a visa on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Luxembourg diplomatic and consular missions on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Legal references Loi modifiée du 29 août 2008 portant sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Règlement grand-ducal modifié du 5 septembre 2008 portant exécution de certaines dispositions relatives aux formalités administratives prévues par la loi du 29 août 2008 sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Règlement grand-ducal modifié du 3 février 2009 relatif au contrôle médical des étrangers International Health Regulations (2005) on the webside of the World Health Organization Your opinion matters to us 23 avis déposés Tell us what you think of this page. You can leave us your feedback on how to improve this page. You will not receive a reply to your feedback. Please use the contact form for any specific questions you might have. Fields marked with an asterisk ( * ) are mandatory . Did you find what you were looking for? * Yes Partially No What information were you looking for? How would you rate this page? * Very poor Very good How can we improve it? Leave a comment to help us improve this page. Do not provide any personal information such as your email address, name, telephone number, etc. 0/1000 Send your opinion Data protection Please rate this page Your opinion has been submitted successfully! Thank you for your contribution. If you need help or have any questions, please use the contact form. Would you like to help us make digital public services more user-friendly by submitting your suggestions for improvement? Then visit Zesumme Vereinfachen, the online participation platform dedicated to administrative simplification in Luxembourg. Let's simplify things together An error occurred Oops, an error has occurred. Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
