Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Third-country nationals Home Immigration Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days Third-country nationals Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Working in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Staying in Luxembourg for less than 3 months as a seasonal worker from a third country Staying and working in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a holder of the EU Blue Card issued by another Member State Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days after a long stay Partage Share by email Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Listen Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Last update 05.01.2026 Demande d’engagement de prise en charge pour un court séjour au Grand-Duché de Luxembourg Go to online services and forms Third-country nationals who wish to either stay in the Schengen area for a period of 90 days , or transit through it, must: before entering the country: carry a valid travel document. This document must be valid for at least 3 months after the date on which they plan to leave the territory of the Member States of the European Union (EU). if they are subject to a short-stay visa requirement to enter the Schengen area: apply for a short-stay visa at the relevant diplomatic or consular representation; For further information on short-stay visas, please consult the following link: Short-stay Schengen visa (maximum 90 days within a 180-day period) . after entering the country: either make a declaration of arrival in their commune of temporary residence; or complete an accommodation form at the establishment where they are staying (hotel, guest room, etc.). The eTracking function for hardcopy (paper) forms is a feature of this process. This option allows users to track the progress of administrative procedures by email and/or by SMS. Who is concerned Third-country nationals (who are not EU citizens and are not treated as EU Member State nationals – Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein or Switzerland) who wish to stay in Luxembourg for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period for: tourism or to visit family or friends (without undertaking work); business and official visits ; other reasons for travel, such as: culture, sports, studies, medical reasons, etc. All third-country nationals who wish to work in Luxembourg for a period of less than 90 days must first apply for a work permit to the General Department of Immigration of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Specific case: a third-country national wishing to come to Luxembourg to get married Third-country nationals wishing to marry an EU or third-country national legally residing in Luxembourg must follow the usual procedures for a short stay . They must also: apply for a short-stay visa , if necessary; and meet the conditions for entry and short-term stay. Prerequisites Before coming to Luxembourg, third-country nationals must: check whether or not they have to obtain a visa to enter the Schengen area; carry a recognised and valid travel document . The validity must be at least 3 months beyond the date on which they plan to leave the territory of the EU Member States in order to enter the territory legally; not be listed in the Schengen Information System (SIS); not be subject to a decision prohibiting entry into the territory ; not be considered as a threat to public order , national security, public health or international relations of Luxembourg or one of the signatory States of an international convention on the crossing of external borders and binding Luxembourg; be able to document the object and conditions of the intended stay ; be in possession of sufficient personal resources , both for the duration of the intended stay and for the return to the country of origin or residence and/or transit to a third country (or provide evidence of the possibility of acquiring such resources legally); have travel medical insurance that covers: a minimum of EUR 30,000 in medical expenses, valid for the duration of the planned stay; and all risks within the Schengen area. Additional documents may also be requested by consulates. Third-country nationals who meet the above conditions are granted authorisation to stay in Luxembourg and the Schengen area for up to 90 days in any 180-day period. How to proceed Before entering the country If the third-country national is not subject to visa requirements Third-country nationals (not family members of an EU citizen) who are not subject to visa requirements must, to meet the conditions to enter and stay, provide the following documents when entering the country: carry a recognised and valid travel document . The validity must be at least 3 months beyond the date on which they plan to leave the territory of the EU Member States in order to enter the territory legally; in case of a control at the outside border of the Schengen area, supporting documents proving: the purpose of the trip: official letter of invitation for a business trip, hotel reservation, return airline ticket, etc.; be in possession of sufficient personal resources , both for the duration of the intended stay and for the return to the country of origin or residence and/or transit to a third country (or provide evidence of the possibility of acquiring such resources legally). Financial statement of support The financial statement of support may be made either: online via the 'Application for a formal obligation for a short stay in Luxembourg' procedure on My Guichet.lu . This is a procedure with authentication that requires: a LuxTrust product; or an electronic identity card ( eID ); in paper format by completing the required form . This procedure requires: legalisation of the guarantor's signature by the authorities in their place of residence; the approval of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade. The following supporting documents must be attached to the application: a copy of the guarantor's passport/identity card data page, and, in the case of third-country nationals, a copy of their residence permit; the guarantor's last three payslips (or any other document certifying monthly income) and/or any other additional monthly income and, where applicable, any proof of financial assistance, without resorting to the social assistance system; a copy of the data page of the passport of the financially supported person. After approval of the financial statement of support, the third-country national concerned has six months from the date of approval to make use of it. Please note: approval of the financial statement of support: does not constitute an authorisation to enter or reside in Luxembourg; and does not prejudge the decision that will be made regarding the short stay visa application. If the third-country national is subject to visa requirements Third-country nationals subject to visa requirements must submit a visa application before travelling, from their country of origin : to the Luxembourg diplomatic or consular body in their country of origin; or failing that, to the embassy or consulate of the country in the Schengen area which represents Luxembourg for the issuance of visas. Possession of a valid visa does not in itself confer an automatic right of entry into the territory of EU Member States, in accordance with article 30 of Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 . It is advisable to renew your travel document before entering Luxembourg if it expires in less than 6 months. If the non-EU national has a valid residence permit for family members of an EU citizen or a valid residence permit issued by another Schengen area Member State, no visa is required . After entering the country Within 3 days of arriving in Luxembourg, third-country nationals are required to complete the following formalities: either make a declaration of arrival at the communal administration where they will be staying by presenting, in particular: a valid travel document accompanied, where applicable, by a visa, residence card or residence permit issued by another EU Member State; or complete an accommodation form at the establishment where they are staying. It serves as a declaration of arrival. The maximum duration of the stay in the Schengen area is limited to 90 days over a 180-day period from the date of entry into the Schengen area. Online services and forms Data protection Online services Demande d’engagement de prise en charge pour un court séjour au Grand-Duché de Luxembourg Formal obligation With eTracking Other language(s) fr Close fr Engagement de prise en charge Downloadable forms Note: view tips for using PDF forms . Formal obligation Last update 02.01.2026 PDF 333 Kb Other language(s) fr Close fr Engagement de prise en charge Who to contact Hide map Show map Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Directorate of Consular Affairs and International Cultural Relations Address: 6, rue de l’Ancien Athénée L-1144 Luxembourg Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 88 300 Email address: service.passeports@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.visas@mae.etat.lu Email address: service.legalisation@mae.etat.lu Email address: assistance.consulaire@mae.etat.lu &#34;Lëtzebuerger am Ausland&#34; Website: https://mae.gouvernement.lu/fr/services-aux-citoyens/passeport.html Show on map Directorate of Consular Affairs and International Cultural Relations Legalisation service Address: 6, rue de l’Ancien Athénée L-1144 Luxembourg Phone: (+352) 247 88 300 Email address: service.legalisation@mae.etat.lu Website: https://mae.gouvernement.lu/en/services-aux-citoyens/legalisation.html Closed ⋅ Opens Monday at 8.30 Saturday: Closed Sunday: Closed Monday: 8.30 to 11.30, 13.00 to 16.00 Tuesday: 8.30 to 11.30, 13.00 to 16.00 Wednesday: 8.30 to 11.30, 13.00 to 16.00 Thursday: 8.30 to 11.30, 13.00 to 16.00 Friday: 8.30 to 11.30, 13.00 to 16.00 Show on map Related procedures and links Procedures Luxembourg entry visa for third-country nationals Declaring a move to a new commune of residence Staying in Luxembourg for less than 90 days as a third-country national Links Further information Luxembourg diplomatic and consular missions on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade List of countries whose citizens require a visa on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Defence, Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Travel documents for non-EU family members on Your Europe Legal references Regulation (EC) No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 establishing a Community Code on Visas (Visa Code) Loi modifiée du 29 août 2008 portant sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Règlement grand-ducal modifié du 5 septembre 2008 portant exécution de certaines dispositions relatives aux formalités administratives prévues par la loi du 29 août 2008 sur la libre circulation des personnes et l'immigration Your opinion matters to us 23 avis déposés Tell us what you think of this page. You can leave us your feedback on how to improve this page. You will not receive a reply to your feedback. Please use the contact form for any specific questions you might have. Fields marked with an asterisk ( * ) are mandatory . Did you find what you were looking for? * Yes Partially No What information were you looking for? How would you rate this page? * Very poor Very good How can we improve it? Leave a comment to help us improve this page. Do not provide any personal information such as your email address, name, telephone number, etc. 0/1000 Send your opinion Data protection Please rate this page Your opinion has been submitted successfully! Thank you for your contribution. If you need help or have any questions, please use the contact form. Would you like to help us make digital public services more user-friendly by submitting your suggestions for improvement? Then visit Zesumme Vereinfachen, the online participation platform dedicated to administrative simplification in Luxembourg. Let's simplify things together An error occurred Oops, an error has occurred. Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
