Housing & Construction - Guichet.lu - Luxembourg Go to main menu Go to main menu Go to content Guichet.lu - Citizen Changer d'espace - Menu citizens actif Citizens Businesses Français Deutsch English Search Search site Search Log in Menu main Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Procedures by theme Procedures by theme Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work News Life events Help Contact Settings Guichet.lu - Citizen Citizens Businesses Log in Français Deutsch English Procedures by theme Citizenship Identity card, Passport, Criminal record, Nationality Family & Education Family allowance, Marriage, Training, Schooling, AideFi Financial aid Family, Housing, Transport, Health, Leisure, Work Health & Social security Health insurance, Medical expenses, Home care Housing & Construction Aid, Buying, Construction, Renting & Letting, Renovation Immigration Residence documents, International protection, Moving to Luxembourg Inclusion Citizenship, Family & Education, Health, Housing & Construction, Taxation, Transport, Work Justice Leisure Fishing, Tourism, Culture, Hunting, Sporting activities Taxation Tax return, Adjustment, Deduction, Inheritance, Donation Transport Driving licence, Registration, Adapto, Public transport Work Employment contracts, Leave, Pension, Unemployment News Life events Search site Search Help Contact Home Home Housing & Construction Housing & Construction Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work Rubrique : Housing & Construction Sélectionner une rubrique Close Citizenship Family & Education Financial aid Health & Social security Housing & Construction Immigration Inclusion Justice Leisure Taxation Transport Work Sub-sections Acquisition & Sales Leasing Construction, Renovation & Transformation Urban planning & Environment Moving Financial aid Booking an appointment with the Single point of contact for housing assistance Booking an appointment with Luxembourg City's Water Department Water extraction Topics of interest Tax credit on notarial instruments ('Bëllegen Akt') Rent subsidy Footer Tools Access our various tools (simulators, calculators, etc.) that make your daily administrative tasks even easier. Online services & Forms Here you can find the online services and forms you need for your administrative procedures. Tutorials Take a look at our tutorials which take you step-by-step through the key features of MyGuichet.lu. Bodies & Administrations This directory lists all the bodies and administrations mentioned in our information pages in alphabetical order. Mobile application Download the MyGuichet.lu app and get access to online services where, when and how you want. Keep up to date with the latest news from Guichet.lu Subscribe to the newsletter Facebook Linked In Youtube Guichet.lu is the information portal that simplifies your interactions with the State . It gives you quick, user-friendly access to all the information, procedures and services offered by Luxembourg's public administrations and bodies. Help Contact Sitemap Accessibility Legal notice Cookie management Close Data protection Close Close To complete your application, the information about you collected from this form needs to be processed by the public administration concerned. That information is kept by the administration in question for as long as it is required to achieve the purpose of the processing operation(s). Your data will be shared with other public administrations that are necessary for the processing of your application. For details on which departments will have access to the data on this form, please contact the public administration you are filing your application with. Under the terms of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, you have the right to access, rectify or, where applicable, remove any information relating to you. You are also entitled to withdraw your consent at any time. Additionally, unless the processing of your personal data is compulsory, you may, with legitimate reasons, oppose the processing of such data. If you wish to exercise these rights and/or obtain a record of the information held about you, please contact the administration in question using the contact details provided on the form. You are also entitled to file a claim with the National Commission for Data Protection (Commission nationale pour la protection des données), headquartered at 15, boulevard du Jazz L-4370 Belvaux. By submitting your application, you agree that your personal data may be processed as part of the application process. Back to top
