Visas For Ireland | Embassy of Ireland, USA | Ireland.ie | Ireland.ie Skip to main content An official website of the Government of Ireland. About ireland.ie Embassy Embassy Consulates Consulates Passports Passports Travel Travel Contact Contact Ireland in the world Ireland in the world Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Irish Aid Ireland at the UN Ireland in the EU Support for Irish diaspora Ireland in the world Ireland in the world Back Ireland in the world Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Irish Aid Ireland at the UN Ireland in the EU Support for Irish diaspora Ireland in the world Embassies Ireland in the world Ireland’s global footprint is growing. Explore the breadth of Ireland’s relationships with countries around the world: Ireland in the world directory Irish Embassies and Consulates abroad There are over 100 Irish missions abroad who can provide consular services. Locate your nearest Embassy, Consulate General or Representative Office: Embassy A-Z Embassies Back Embassies Ireland in the world directory Embassy A-Z Passports and travel Passports and travel Passports How to apply for a passport Current turnaround times Track your passport Travel Advice Know Before You Go Assistance abroad Visas for Ireland Passports and travel Back Passports and travel Passports How to apply for a passport Current turnaround times Track your passport Travel Advice Know Before You Go Assistance abroad Visas for Ireland This is Ireland This is Ireland Visit Invest Trade Study This is Ireland Back This is Ireland Visit Invest Trade Study About Passports Services Travel News Contact Consulates Embassy Embassy Consulates Consulates Passports Passports Travel Travel Contact Contact Ireland in the world Ireland in the world Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Irish Aid Ireland at the UN Ireland in the EU Support for Irish diaspora Ireland in the world Ireland in the world Back Ireland in the world Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Irish Aid Ireland at the UN Ireland in the EU Support for Irish diaspora Ireland in the world Embassies Ireland in the world Ireland’s global footprint is growing. Explore the breadth of Ireland’s relationships with countries around the world: Ireland in the world directory Irish Embassies and Consulates abroad There are over 100 Irish missions abroad who can provide consular services. Locate your nearest Embassy, Consulate General or Representative Office: Embassy A-Z Embassies Back Embassies Ireland in the world directory Embassy A-Z Passports and travel Passports and travel Passports How to apply for a passport Current turnaround times Track your passport Travel Advice Know Before You Go Assistance abroad Visas for Ireland Passports and travel Back Passports and travel Passports How to apply for a passport Current turnaround times Track your passport Travel Advice Know Before You Go Assistance abroad Visas for Ireland This is Ireland This is Ireland Visit Invest Trade Study This is Ireland Back This is Ireland Visit Invest Trade Study About Passports Services Travel News Contact Consulates About Passports Services Travel News Contact Consulates Search this website Services Visas Visas for Ireland Visas Visas for Ireland Contents — Who needs a visa — Types of visa and documentation — How to apply — Visa appeals — On arrival in Ireland — Fees — Payment details Who needs a visa Whether you need a visa to travel to Ireland depends on what country you&#x27;re from. Visit the Irish Immigration Service Travel Path for more information regarding your personal requirements for travelling to Ireland. Information on visa requirements for transiting through Ireland is available on IrishImmigration.ie Please note that Ireland is not party to the Schengen Agreement, and a Schengen visa or residence permit does not entitle you to travel to Ireland without a visa. Unless you qualify for the Short Stay Visa Waiver Programme or the British Irish Visa Scheme a valid UK visa does not entitle you to travel to Ireland without a visa. Further information on these schemes is available on the website of the Irish Immigration Service . Note : A visa allows you to travel to Ireland only. It does not give you permission to enter the country or to stay here. An immigration officer at border control can refuse entry even if you have a visa. Remember… If you&#x27;re a citizen of a non-EEA country, whether you need a visa or not, you will be subject to immigration control when you enter Ireland. Back to top Types of Visa and Documentation Full information on the different types of visas, required documentation, and how to apply can be found on the website of the Irish Immigration Service . Information on applying for a short-stay (less than 90 days) tourist visa is available on the Coming to Visit section of IrishImmigration.ie . Information on coming to work in Ireland is available on the Coming to Work section of IrishImmigration.ie . Information on coming to study in Ireland is available on the Coming to Study section of IrishImmigration.ie . Information on coming to join family in Ireland is available on the Coming to Join Family section of IrishImmigration.ie . Back to top How to apply You need to: Complete the online application form This will generate an application summary form and declaration at the end, which you must print, sign and date. Gather your supporting documentation, passport photograph and fee. Submit your application To complete the process, you must submit your passport and supporting documents for processing. Where you submit your application depends on where you are living. The summary application form will direct you to the relevant Embassy, Consulate or Visa Application Centre. If you applied directly to an Irish Immigration Service Visa Office or if your application was referred to the Irish Immigration Service for a decision, you can check the Irish Immigration Service Visa Decision Weekly Listing using your reference number. If you applied at an Embassy or Consulate, they will contact you once a decision on the visa application has been made. Back to top Visa appeals If your visa application is refused, you will receive a letter from the visa office telling you why it has been refused and if you can appeal the decision. Further information on appealing visa decisions is available on the website of the Irish Immigration Service . All appeals are handled directly by the Irish Immigration Service. Back to top On arrival in Ireland Further information on what to expect on arrival in Ireland can be found on the website of the Irish Immigration Service . Information on entry for EU/EEA and Swiss nationals is available on IrishImmigration.ie . Information on entry for non-EU, non-EEA and non-Swiss nationals is available on IrishImmigration.ie . Information on travelling with children is available on IrishImmigration.ie . Information on transiting through Ireland is available on IrishImmigration.ie . Back to top Fees Check the website of the Irish Immigration Service for information on preclearance and entry visa fees, including information on visa fee exemptions. See the below Payment details section for further information on fees and payments. Back to top Payment details To pay for your visa application by credit or debit card please email visadesk@dfa.ie to request a payment invoice. You must include the following information: Name Application Number Email Address Mailing Address Type of Visa Once you received the invoice, and completed the payment, please include the receipt in the package with your supporting documents. Personal checks, and cash are not accepted. Visa Fees Transit visa $35 Single-entry visa $70 Multiple-entry visa $115 Working Holiday Authorisation $295 All applications are subject to an administration fee of $5 Shipping (FedEx Priority) Unless you intend to collect your visa in-person at the Embassy or provide a prepaid label, you must pay the following amount for shipping in addition to the visa fee: Domestic: $10 International: $20 We cannot accept handwritten FedEx shipping labels. Back to top BETA This is a prototype - your feedback will help us to improve it. Leave feedback. Follow us About Job opportunities Passports Services News Accessibility policy Cookies policy Privacy policy An Roinn Gnóthaí Eachtracha Ireland in the United States of America Ireland&#x27;s Consulates in the USA Contact © Copyright 2026 - Ireland.ie | All rights reserved
