Personal Public Service (PPS) number Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Social Welfare > Irish social welfare system > Personal Public Service (PPS) number Personal Public Service (PPS) number What is a Personal Public Service (PPS) number? Where can I find my PPS number? Using my PPS number Rules for getting a PPS number Getting a PPS number for a child How to apply for a PPS number Client Identity Services — contact details What is a Personal Public Service (PPS) number? Your Personal Public Service (PPS) number is a unique reference number that helps you access social welfare benefits, public services and information in Ireland. A PPS number is always 7 numbers followed by either one or 2 letters. It is sometimes called a PPSN. You have a PPS number if: You were born in Ireland in or after 1971 You started work in Ireland after 1979 You are getting a social welfare payment You are taking part in the Drugs Payment Scheme Where can I find my PPS number? PPS numbers are printed on the following documents: Public Services Card Tax Assessment PAYE Notice of Tax Credits Temporary Payment Card If you do not know your PPS number, contact your Intreo Centre or local Social Welfare Branch Office and staff there can find your number for you. I have the same PPS number as my husband If your PPS number is the same as your husband’s PPS number, but the last letter is W, you must get a new PPS number in the following circumstances: Your spouse is deceased You are divorced or separated You were issued with a Social Insurance number before 1979 You can contact Client Identity Services in the Department of Social Protection (see contact details below) for help. Read more about the phasing out of W Numbers on Gov.ie. Using my PPS number You need your PPS number to use certain public services. Only certain services are allowed to ask for your PPS number . For example, if you are starting work, you need a PPS number to register with the Revenue Commissioners. However, when you are looking for work, employers should not ask for your PPS number when recruiting. An employer should only ask for your PPS number when you are actually taking up employment with the company. You need your PPS number for: All social welfare services The Free Travel Pass Registering for a course in a school or college Public health services , including the medical card and the Drugs Payment Scheme Child immunisation Schemes run by the Revenue Commissioners, such as mortgage interest relief Housing grants Driver theory testing and driving licences If you are unsure whether a particular organisation, person or agent is allowed to ask for (or use) your PPS number, contact Client Identity Services in the Department of Social Protection (see contact details below). Rules for getting a PPS number To get a PPS number, you must show proof of: Your identity Your address Why you need a PPS number (if you are not living in Ireland or Northern Ireland) Proof of your identity I am: Documents needed as proof of identity: An Irish citizen born in the Republic of Ireland Photographic ID - your current Irish passport, current Irish or UK driving licence, or Irish learner driver permit (You no longer need to provide your birth certificate. The birth records of people born in Ireland are held by the General Register Office (GRO) and verified automatically.) An Irish citizen via naturalisation or Foreign Birth Registration Your current Irish passport or Certificate of Naturalisation or Your Foreign Birth Registration certificate and Irish or UK driving licence or Irish learner driving permit An Irish citizen born in Northern Ireland or a UK citizen Your current passport or Your birth certificate showing your mother’s birth name and current full driving licence or Irish learner driver permit EU citizens (other than Irish and UK) Your current passport or national identity card Non-EU citizens Your current passport Proof of your address You must show proof of your address using any of the following documents (the document must show your name and address and not be older than 3 months): A household utility bill An official letter or document A bank statement Property lease or tenancy agreement Official confirmation of address by a third party, such as a hotel or hostel administrator or manager, a school principal or administrator, or accommodation or property owner* *If you are staying with friends or relatives, you can use an original household bill, plus a note from the bill holder confirming your residency at the bill address. This note can be written on the bill itself. If you change your address If you have your PPS number and a verified MyGovID then you can update your address using MyWelfare.ie. If you change your address and you don&#x27;t have a verified MyGovID, you should write to the DSP giving your name, PPS number, old and new address, and proof of your new address (such as a utility bill). The Department of Social Protection (DSP) will then update your record. You can scan your completed forms and post them to Client Identity Services (see address below). Getting a PPS number for a child A person who is under 18 years of age is considered a child for PPS number applications. Children born in Ireland are given a PPS number if their birth is registered with the General Register Office (GRO) within 3 months of their birth. In this case, you do not need to apply for your child’s PPS number. You must apply for a child’s PPS number if: The child’s birth is not registered within 180 days The child is born in Ireland and both parents’ addresses are outside Ireland The child is living in Ireland, but not born in Ireland One of the parents or guardians must have a PPS number for the child to be registered and linked with their data. How to apply for a PPS number Apply online If you have a MyGovID account, you can apply online for a PPS number on MyWelfare for: An adult A child If you are applying for a PPS number for you and your child, you can apply for both at the same time in the same application. You and your child must attend an in-person appointment to complete your application. If you are applying for a PPS number for a child, you need to provide proof of: Your own identity Your address The child’s identity Why the child needs a PPS number The relationship between you (the parent or guardian) and the child To apply online on MyWelfare.ie , you must: Be at least 18 years of age Have a basic MyGovID account Fill in the online application form For customers that live on the island of Ireland, you can select a suitable location, date and time to attend an in-person appointment at a PPS Number Allocation Centre. You must attend your in-person appointment to complete your application. When the application process is completed, you will receive your PPS number by post. How to apply for a PPS number if you live outside Ireland If you live outside Ireland and need a PPS number for an interaction with a specified body in Ireland, you can apply for a PPS number online at MyWelfare if you have a basic MyGovID account. For example, if you are a beneficiary under an Irish will , you may need a PPS number before a grant of probate can issue. You should fill in the application form online and upload: A copy of your photo identity document (current passport, driving licence, ID card, etc.) If you do not have valid documents, you should provide whatever ID documents you do have Proof of why you need a PPS number Proof of your address If you are applying for a PPS number for a child, you need to provide proof of: Your own identity The child’s identity Why the child needs a PPS number The relationship between you (the parent or guardian) and the child Your address The documents you upload must be easy to read. You cannot apply for a PPS number if you intend to relocate to Ireland - you must wait until you are in Ireland to apply for your PPS number. Read our page about PPS numbers for returning Irish emigrants and their families . Paper application If you can&#x27;t use the online system, you can download the PPS number application form (REG1) to apply for a PPS number by post (the email service is no longer available). If you are applying for a child, download an application form for a PPS number for a child under 18 years of age (REG1M) (pdf) . You must provide: Proof of your address Proof of your identity The reason you need a PPS number A consent form signed by you if the PPS number is to be given to a third party representative, for example, a solicitor or accountant A completed questionnaire (pdf) Applications submitted by third parties (e.g. solicitors, accountants) on behalf of a customer can still be submitted by post or by email to cis@welfare.ie . Find more information about applying for a PPS number from outside Ireland on Gov.ie . How do I get a PPS number for a person who has died? Sometimes, a PPS number may be needed for a person who has died, usually when dealing with grant of probate. In these cases, you should send a copy of the death certificate and details about why you need the PPS number to the DSP&#x27;s Client Identity Services (see contact details below). Client Identity Services — contact details Client Identity Services Department of Social Protection Shannon Lodge Carrick-on-Shannon Co. Leitrim N41 KD81 Tel: (071) 967 2616 or 0818 927 999 Homepage: https://www.gov.ie/en/publication/fd52ab-public-services-card/ Email: CIS@welfare.ie Page edited: 28 May 2026 Related documents Public Services Card The Public Services Card is designed to replace other cards such as the free travel pass and the social services card of the Department of Social Protection. 886.24426 Public petitions Members of the public can raise issues of general public interest or public policy with the Houses of the Oireachtas. 880.1271 Public holidays This gives a list of the 10 public holidays and describes your entitlement to paid time off for these. 872.00006 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
