Employment Permits - DETE Our website uses cookies to enhance your browsing experience and to collect information about how you use this site to improve our service to you. By not accepting cookies some elements of the site, such as video, will not work. Please visit our Cookie Policy page for more information on how we use cookies. Manage Cookies Accept all cookies English / Gaeilge Publications Legislation Consultations FAQs Online Services Our Offices and Agencies Menu Who We Are What We Do News & Events Contact Us Publications Legislation Consultations FAQs Online Services Our Offices and Agencies English / Gaeilge Who We Are Ministers Secretary General Statement of Strategy Department Structure Offices and agencies Corporate Information Customer Service Do you require special assistance? 23 Kildare Street What We Do Enterprise Innovation Tourism, Trade & Investment Supports for SMEs The Business Environment Workplace & Skills EU & Internal Market Company & Corporate Law Consumer & Competition News & Events Department News Our Offices and Agencies News Speeches Public Notices Department Events Contact the Press Office Contact Us Ask Us a Question Submit a Comment Contact Employment Permits Make an FOI Request Make a Complaint Send Us Website Feedback Do you require special assistance? Sign Language Interpreting Service Home > What We Do > Workplace & Skills > Employment Permits What We Do Employment permits To work in Ireland, a non-EEA national, unless they are exempted, must hold a valid employment permit. The department's Employment Permits Section administers the employment permits system. Eligibility and requirements Information for applicants on eligibility and requirements Types of permits Details of the nine different types of permits Apply for a permit You can apply for a permit on Employment Permits Online . Once registered, you can apply for permits, track your application status, update personal details, and get assistance—all in one place. User guide: Employment Permits Online User Guide (PDF, 4.4MB) Use the appropriate checklist to help with your application . Remember, any employment permit application where a Labour Market Needs Test is required must have published a EURES ad for at least 28 days before a valid application can be submitted. An application for any employment permit must be received at least 12 weeks before the proposed employment start date. There is a cut-off deadline of 28 days from starting any application to submitting it. If an application form has not been submitted or completed within 28 days, it is deleted. This is for data protection purposes. In such instance, it is not possible to retrieve the application and the applicant must begin the application process again. A contract of employment signed by both parties must be submitted with each application. Application processing dates Check the current processing dates for applications Latest notices View the latest notices and developments Important notice about queries: The Employment Permits Section does not have a public office and cannot facilitate personal callers to the office. Please contact the Employment Permits Call Centre if you have a query relating to the employment in Ireland of a non-EEA national. Note on data protection : In submitting a completed, signed application form to this department, both the employer and the prospective employee, accept that the department may share the information contained on the application with other departments and State agencies for the sole purpose of verifying the information supplied by the applicant. Back to Top Workplace & Skills Employment Permits Current processing dates Latest notices and developments Economic migration policy Eligibility and requirements Types of permit Trusted Partner Initiative Application forms Fees Changing employer Permit holders made redundant Consultation to review occupations lists Statistics FAQs Contact details Related Information for&#160;Employment Permits What's New Publications Consultations Cookie Management Privacy Statement and Cookie Policy Social Media Policy Disclaimer Copyright Accessibility Sitemap A-Z Index FOI FOI Publication Scheme Data Protection Re-use of Public Service Info Advisory Councils Construction Contracts Adjudication Service Contact us Department of Enterprise, Tourism and Employment 23 Kildare Street, Dublin 2, D02 TD30 Tel: +353 1 631 2121 0818 302 121 Email: info@enterprise.gov.ie National Enterprise Hub Website: neh.gov.ie Subscribe to our email alerts
