Employment permits and family members Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Moving Country > Coming to work in Ireland > Employment permits and the right to work > Employment permits and family members Employment permits and family members Introduction Can my family join me in Ireland? Immigration rules Can my family work? Other family members Further information Introduction If you have moved to Ireland to work with an employment permit, your family can apply to join you. For Critical Skills Employment Permit holders and doctors with a Stamp 1H, family members can join you in Ireland immediately. For General Employment Permits and other employment permits , your family can apply to join you after one year. Family member means spouse or de facto partner, and dependent children. A de facto partner is a person you are in a committed relationship with that is like a marriage, but you are not married to each other. Other family members may be allowed to join you in Ireland in limited situations. In most cases, you must be able to show that you can support your family. If your family are granted a visa (if they need one) to enter Ireland, they may still need their own employment permit to work. Can my family join me in Ireland? Your family does not have an automatic right to join an employment permit holder in Ireland, unless they are citizens of the EEA (the EU, plus Iceland, Norway and Lichtenstein), the UK or Switzerland. Immigration Service Delivery (ISD - the Irish immigration authority) has a family reunification policy , which sets out rules for how families from outside the EEA, UK and Switzerland can join people who live in Ireland. The policy includes people who live in Ireland as holders of an employment permit. You can sponsor applications for your family to join you in Ireland if you have an employment permit and satisfy conditions that are set out below. You do not have to be married for a particular period of time. For de facto partnerships, you must be able to show that you have been in the relationship for at least 2 years. Critical Skills Employment Permits (CSEP), researchers on a Hosting Agreement and doctors with Stamp 1H Your spouse or de facto partner and dependent children can apply to come to Ireland without any waiting period. All other employment permits Your spouse or de facto partner, and dependent children can apply to come to Ireland at the end of a 12 month waiting period. You must be earning enough money to support your family. There are set minimum income limits for family size . Immigration rules If your family is from a country that needs a visa to travel to Ireland , each family member must apply for their own visa. You can read guidance on the documents you must provide with the application. If your family is from a country that does not need a visa, then they can travel to Ireland and present documentation to an immigration officer at the airport or port. De-facto partners (and their dependent children) of Critical Skills Employment Permit or Hosting Agreement holders who are from a country that does not need a visa, must apply for pre-clearance before coming to Ireland. A de-facto partner is a person that you are in a committed relationship with that is like a marriage, but you are not actually married. After arriving in Ireland : Your spouse or de-facto partner and any child aged 16 and over must register and get an Irish Residence Permit (IRP) . Can my family work? Your family’s right to work depends on the type of employment permit you have. Critical Skills Employment Permits (CSEP), researchers on a Hosting Agreement and doctors with Stamp 1H Your spouse or partner can get a Stamp 1G IRP when they register. This gives them the right to work without an employment permit. Your other dependents can apply for a Dependant/Spouse/Partner Employment Permit . This employment permit makes it easier for dependents to access employment because: Employers do not have to satisfy the labour market needs test The dependant can apply for any job vacancy except that of a domestic operative Applications and renewals are free of charge Pay must be at or above the National Minimum Wage Certain dependent children may not need an Employment Permit when they reach age 16 – see below. General Employment Permit and Intra-Corporate Transferee (ICT) Permit holders From 15 May 2024, you can work without an employment permit if you are the spouse or de-facto partner of a General Employment Permit (GEP) holder or an Intra-Corporate Transferee (ICT) permit holder and you are currently living in Ireland with a Stamp 3 immigration permission. This change does not apply to a spouse or partner in Ireland on other immigration permissions (for example, student or visitor) or to any other dependents. You do not need to get a new IRP until your current Irish Residence Permit (IRP) expires. You can use Stamp 3 to 1G notice for employers (pdf) to show employers that you have permission to work in Ireland without an employment permit. When your current IRP card expires and you renew it, you will be issued with a Stamp 1G. If a spouse or partner is not currently living in Ireland, and they are given permission to live in Ireland with the GEP or ICT holder, then they will get a Stamp 1G allowing them to work without an employment permit. Your other dependents have to apply for an employment permit if they want to work in Ireland. Certain children may not need an Employment Permit when they reach age 16 – see below. Children From 26 November 2025, eligible dependent minor children of Critical Skills Employment Permit, General Employment Permit and Intra-Corporate Transferee Irish Employment Permit holders, Researchers on Hosting Agreements, and full-time non-locum doctors will get a Stamp 1G permission upon reaching 16 years of age. This will allow them to take up employment without needing to get a separate Employment Permit of their own. If you have an eligible dependent minor child with a Stamp 3 endorsed on their current in-date Irish Residence Permit (IRP) card, they can immediately avail of the same immigration conditions applied as Stamp 1G . You do not need to make a new application to the Registration Office to change their current permission from Stamp 3 to Stamp 1G or acquire a new IRP card until the card’s renewal date. All other employment permits Your family member must apply for an employment permit to work. They cannot apply for a Dependent/Spouse/Partner Employment Permit. Instead, they must apply for another category of employment permit . This means the job must satisfy the criteria for the permit. Other family members In general, only spouses or partners, and dependent children (under 18) can join you in Ireland. Children of your spouse or partner (that are not your children) can apply if they are part of your family unit. Older children Older children (over 18) may be able to join you in Ireland if you can show that they are wholly dependent on you. If they cannot work because of an illness or disability, they should include details in their visa application. Older children who are able to work and support themselves in the country where they live, or have other family members who can support them, are less likely to be approved. The decision is based on the individual circumstances of the applicant. Dependent parents Your parents, or the parents of your spouse or partner, can only join you in Ireland if you can support them financially. Both your income and that of your spouse or partner is considered. Having the income does not guarantee that permission will be granted. You can read about the other requirements for elderly dependent relatives on the ISD website . If your parent can support themselves financially, they can make an application to come to Ireland without a sponsor with Stamp 0 permission . Other family members Other family members may, in exceptional or compassionate circumstances, be given permission to join you in Ireland where they are dependent on you. Further information is available in the Family Reunification Policy Document. Further information Department of Enterprise, Tourism and Employment Employment Permits Section Earlsfort Centre Lower Hatch Street Dublin 2 D02 PW01 Ireland Opening Hours: Helpline only: Monday to Friday 9:30am - 5pm Tel: +353 1 417 5333 Locall: 0818 808 090 Fax: +353 1 631 3268 Homepage: https://enterprise.gov.ie/en/What-We-Do/Workplace-and-Skills/Employment-Permits/ Contact Form: https://enterprise.gov.ie/en/what-we-do/workplace-and-skills/employment-permits/employment-permit-status-form/ Email: employmentpermits@enterprise.gov.ie Page edited: 19 May 2026 Related documents Back to Work Family Dividend The Back to Work Family Dividend is a weekly payment to help people with children move from social welfare into work. 1022.7012 Reactivation Employment Permit Non-EEA nationals who held a valid employment permit but who fell out of the system through no fault of their own, or have been badly treated or exploited in the workplace may be eligible for a Reactivation Employment Permit that will allow them to work again. 822.625 Residence rights of family members People who live in Ireland can apply to have for their family to live with them. 796.4411 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
