Immigration rules for full-time non-EEA students Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Moving Country > Moving to Ireland > Studying in Ireland > Immigration rules for full-time non-EEA students Immigration rules for full-time non-EEA students Studying in Ireland Finding a full-time course Other conditions Studying in Ireland Non-EEA nationals coming to study in Ireland must be enrolled in an eligible full-time course. You can read a list of frequently asked questions for non-EEA students on the website of Immigration Service Delivery (ISD). Students who are from a country that requires a visa to enter Ireland , must apply for a student visa. All non-EEA students, including those who do not require a visa, must register with the immigration office to get permission to remain in Ireland for more than 90 days. For courses that result in a stay of 6 to 8 months, you must show evidence that you can access €833 per month (a total of €4,998 for a 6 month stay or €6,665 for an 8 month stay). For courses of study that are one year in duration, you must show that you have access to €10,000. This applies to both visa and non-visa required students. Finding a full-time course Non-EEA nationals coming to study in Ireland must be enrolled in a full-time course in one of the following categories. They are not allowed to come to Ireland to do a part-time or distance learning course. Higher education programmes Non-EEA nationals can enrol in an eligible course at level 6 or above on the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ) . Eligible courses are listed on the Interim List of Eligible Programmes (ILEP) . The maximum time they can study in Ireland at this level is 7 years. There are exceptions to this limit for students doing a PhD or a course such as medicine and for students in special circumstances such as illness. Students must have a certain standard of English. They must also prove that they are progressing in the course, for example, passing exams. The ISD website has more information on the requirements, including immigration rules for students on higher education programmes, and the requirement to have medical insurance . Third Level Graduate Scheme: When they graduate, students may get an extension of their permission to remain in Ireland under the Third Level Graduate Scheme . The scheme allows them to find employment and apply for a General Employment Permit or Critical Skills Employment Permit . Graduates with a level 8 qualification may get a 12-month extension to their residence permission up to a maximum of 7 years of student permission overall (that is, total time spent on Stamps 2 and 1G ). Graduates with qualifications at level 9 or above may get a 24-month extension (2 blocks of 12-months) to their permission up to a maximum of 8 years of student permission overall. English-language programmes Eligible English-language courses are listed in the Interim List of Eligible Programmes (ILEP) . Further education programmes and overseas-accredited vocational education and training programmes are no longer listed as eligible courses and the Internationalisation Register has ceased to exist. The immigration permission to attend a 25-week English-language course is for 8 months. New students attending language courses may be granted permission for a maximum of 3 language courses. This amounts to a total immigration permission of 2 years (3 x 8 months). ISD has published a frequently asked questions for students . Student visa/permission renewals You can renew your permission online . You must have less than 12 weeks left on your current permission before you can use the online renewal system. Your IRP card will be posted to you. The ISD website provides a live update on processing times for renewal applications . If your registration is refused and you believe that you have exceptional circumstances, you can apply for an extension of your student permission . If you are in Ireland waiting for a course to start English language students who have successfully completed a second English language course on or after 1 July 2026, or a third English language course, and have enrolled for a Higher Education Programme (HEP) which starts by the end of October 2026, may apply for a short-term Stamp 2 immigration permission to stay in Ireland until 30 September 2026. You must renew your immigration permission before your short-term permission ends on 30 September 2026. You apply for this short-term stamp 2 immigration permission on the ISDs online portal : If your English language course finished on or after 1 July 2026, your application fee will be refunded when it is processed If your third English language course finished before 1 July 2026 you will pay the standard fee of €300 If you have successfully completed a second English language course before 1 July 2026, you cannot apply for this short-term immigration permission. However, you have the option to undertake a third English language course and renew your immigration permission on that basis. Find out more about getting a short-term Stamp 2 immigration permission while waiting for your next course to start . Other conditions Changing course Students may not change course during the first year of study. After that they may be allowed to change to another course, provided it is at the same or a higher level. They may not change from a full-time to a part-time course. Work Non-EEA students with Stamp 2 permission to remain are allowed to take up casual employment. They can work up to 20 hours a week during term time and up to 40 hours a week in the holidays. Holiday periods have been standardised – June to September inclusive and from 15 December to 15 January. Students with stamp 2A permission are not allowed to work. Social welfare Non-EEA students are not entitled to social welfare payments. One of the conditions of their residence permission is that they have enough money to support themselves and live in Ireland without claiming State benefits. Family reunification Generally, non-EEA students coming to Ireland have no right to bring their family with them. Spouses, partners and children of non-EEA nationals can apply to enter and live in Ireland in their own right, but they cannot apply on the basis of their relationship to a non-EEA student. There are some exceptions to this rule, for example, for PhD students. Short-stay language courses and semesters There are special arrangements for non-EEA students coming to Ireland to do a short course . The course must be for less than 90 days. Page edited: 16 April 2026 Related documents Financial supports for students Information on other financial supports for students in further and higher education. 728.4837 School transport for post-primary students The Department of Education and Youth provides subsidised school transport for eligible post-primary students. 661.3297 Grants and funds for mature students Information on grants and funds available for mature students in third-level education. 626.33167 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
