Universal Social Charge (USC) It looks like you have JavaScript disabled. Certain parts of this website may not work without it. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience. Gaeilge Your choices on cookies This website uses cookies that are necessary to make the website work. You can also choose to set optional analytics cookies that are described below. You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub. Necessary Cookies and Preferences Cookies Necessary cookies are used so that the basic functions of this website work. They are limited to only those that are strictly necessary. For example, we set a session cookie on your device to store a session's status in between http requests to enable better performance. You can disable these cookies by changing your browser settings but this may affect how this website functions for you. Preferences cookies allow a website to remember the choices you have made when you save your cookie preferences. --> Analytics cookies These cookies are used to help us understand how website visitors use this website. They are set by a third-party service provided by Google. The service collects and reports information to us in a way that does not directly identify you as a website user. For example, the service provides summary reports to us that help us to understand which pages our website visitors access most often. This enables us to keep improving the website. You can help us to continue to improve our website by turning analytics cookies on. You can change your mind and turn them off at any point in the future by clicking the Cookie Statement quick link in the footer of every page on this website. When you save your analytics cookies choice below, a cookie will be saved on your device to remember your choice. Save and close --> Your choices on cookies Our website uses cookies in order for our feedback functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional survey cookies that are described below. You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub. Survey cookies Survey cookies are set by a third-party service provided by Qualtrics. These cookies are required in order for our feedback functionality to work. The survey cookies collect information about the page you are providing feedback from. When you save your survey cookies choice below, a cookie will be saved on your device to remember your choice. These cookies are set as session cookies and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. You can help us to continue to improve our website by turning survey cookies on. Feedback Policy We welcome your feedback so that we can continuously improve our website and its content. You can find more information on how we use your feedback in our Feedback policy. Save and close Your choices on cookies This website uses cookies in order for our video functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional video cookies that are described below. You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub. YouTube cookies YouTube cookies are set by a third-party service provided by YouTube, a company owned by Google. These cookies are required in order for our video functionality to work. When you save your YouTube cookies choice below, Revenue will save a cookie on your device to remember your choice. This Revenue cookie is set as a session cookie and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. YouTube may set cookies directly according to YouTube's own cookies policy . Save and close It looks like the internet browser you are using is out of date. Please update your browser for the best experience. Close Tá an chuid seo den suíomh idirlín ar fáil i mBéarla amháin i láthair na huaire. This section of the site is currently only available in English Gaeilge Sign in to myAccount | ROS | LPT online Sign in to myAccount or ROS or LPT online | | --> Gaeilge Search Home Jobs and pensions Universal Social Charge (USC) Overview Payments and income exempt from USC Standard rates and thresholds of USC Reduced rates of USC Other rates of USC Calculating your USC USC between spouses, civil partners and on maintenance payments How USC affects redundancy payments Overview USC is a tax payable on your total income. Depending on your circumstances, you pay USC at the standard rate or the reduced rate. Total income for USC purposes includes things such as: employment income taxable employer benefits self-employed income rental income share option gains and dividend income . If your total income exceeds &euro;13,000, you pay USC on your full income. There are some types of income that are exempt. You are allowed to deduct Capital allowances for plant and machinery and certain buildings before USC is calculated. There is no relief from USC for employee pension contributions. You can see examples of how to calculate your USC in the &lsquo;Calculating your USC&rsquo; page of this section. Note If your circumstances change, for example, if you are granted a medical card, you should contact Revenue . Next: Payments and income exempt from USC Published: 12 December 2025 Please rate how useful this page was to you Print this page Related topics Taxation of employer benefits Further guidance Part 18D-00-01 Universal Social Charge (USC) Back to homepage Back to top Careers Customer service Press office Information about Revenue Revenue museum Assist us Consultations and submissions Contact us Statistics and research Tax education Using revenue.ie Communications Central Register of Beneficial Ownership of Trusts (CRBOT) Accessibility Statutory obligations Privacy Website feedback WhoDoesWhat (English) WhoDoesWhat (Irish) gov.ie (English) gov.ie (Irish)
