Visa requirements for entering Ireland Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Moving Country > Visas and permission to enter Ireland > Visa requirements for entering Ireland Visa requirements for entering Ireland Introduction Do I need a visa? Types of visa Visa waivers for UK visa holders School Student Visa Waiver Do I need preclearance? How to apply for a visa or preclearance Rates Further information and contacts Introduction If you are travelling to Ireland and you are not a citizen of the UK, Switzerland, or a country in the European Economic Area (the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein), you may need to apply for a visa. An Irish visa is a certificate placed on your passport or travel document that allows you to travel to Ireland. You still have to present your passport and documents to immigration control when you arrive at the airport or port, and an immigration officer may still refuse you entry to Ireland . If you are travelling with children , you have to apply for a visa for your children too. You may also have to register with immigration authorities . Ukrainian citizens From 25 February 2022, citizens of Ukraine do not need a visa to travel to Ireland . Read information for people who have arrived in Ireland from Ukraine . Do I need a visa? You do not need a visa to land in Ireland if you: Are a citizen of the EU or the EEA (the EU plus Iceland, Norway and Lichtenstein) or Switzerland Have a residence card issued by an EEA country or Switzerland because you are the family member of an EEA or Swiss citizen living in a country outside of the EEA/Swiss family member’s home country (for example, you live in Germany with your French spouse) Have a UK short-stay visa and qualify for the short-stay visa waiver or the British-Irish Visa Scheme (see ‘Visa waivers for UK visa holders’ below) Are a school student who lives in an EU/EEA country and you are travelling as part of a school trip (see ‘School Student Visa Waiver’ below) Are a citizen of a country listed in the table below. Andorra Hong Kong (Special Admin. Region) Samoa Antigua & Barbuda Israel San Marino Argentina Japan Seychelles Australia Kiribati Singapore Bahamas Macau (Special Admin. Region) Solomon Islands Barbados Malaysia South Korea Belize Maldives Swaziland (Eswatini) Brazil Mexico Taiwan Brunei Monaco Tonga Canada New Zealand Tuvalu Chile Nicaragua Ukraine Costa Rica Panama United Arab Emirates El Salvador Paraguay United Kingdom (see note below) Fiji Saint Kitts & Nevis United States of America Grenada Saint Lucia Uruguay Guatemala Saint Vincent & the Grenadines Vatican City Guyana Note UK: Visa free travel also applies to the following types of British nationality: British national (overseas) British overseas territories citizen (previously called ‘British dependent territories citizenship) British overseas citizen Visa free travel does not apply to people who have a British passport as a ‘British protected person&#x27;. If you are moving to Ireland to live with your Irish de facto partner, a spouse or partner who holds a Critical Skills Employment Permit, or your UK spouse or partner, you have to apply for preclearance even if you are from one of the countries listed above (this does not apply to citizens of Switzerland or the UK). See ‘Do I need preclearance’ below. If you have a short stay visa for the UK and are an Indian or Chinese citizen, you can travel to Ireland without a visa. See ‘Visa waivers for UK visa holders’ below. Travelling with a refugee travel document If you have a refugee travel document issued by a country outside Ireland, you must apply for a visa to enter Ireland. Visa free travel for travel document holders is suspended until further notice. Family members of EEA/Swiss citizens If you are coming to Ireland to join or accompany your EEA family member , you must apply for a visa if you are from a country that is not in the list above. If you are already living in another EEA country or Switzerland because you are the family member of an EEA or Swiss citizen who is exercising their free movement rights, you do not need a visa to travel to Ireland. If you plan to stay in Ireland for more than 3 months you must apply for residence after your arrival. Types of visa The type of visa you need depends on the purpose and length of your stay in Ireland. Short stay visas If you want to come to Ireland for less than 3 months, you should apply for a short stay ‘C’ visa . You should apply for this type of visa if you want to come to Ireland as a tourist or to visit someone, for a business meeting, or to attend a short course. You cannot stay for longer than 3 months on a ‘C’ visa. You must leave Ireland and apply for another visa if you want to return. Long stay visas If you want to come to Ireland for more than 3 months, for example to study, for work or to settle permanently in Ireland with family members who live in Ireland, then you can apply for a long stay ‘D’ visa . The visa application system selects your visa option based on your reason for travel. If you are granted a long stay ‘D’ visa and wish to remain in the State for longer than 3 months you must register and get an Irish Residence Permit (IRP). You can read more information about different types of visa available on the ISD website . Re-entry multiple entry visas The first visa issued to you is valid for a single entry to the State. If you leave Ireland, you must apply for another visa to travel to Ireland again. If you have had single entry visas in the past and you have obeyed the conditions of those visas, you can apply for a multiple entry visa. You can also apply if you need to come to Ireland frequently for business. A multiple entry visa allows you to travel to Ireland on more than one occasion during the period that the visa is valid. Re-entry visas for people who live in Ireland If you have a valid Irish Residence Permit (IRP), you no longer need a re-entry visa to re-enter Ireland when traveling abroad. Children under 16 do not get an IRP. They can return to Ireland without a re-entry visa if they are travelling with parents or guardians. The parents or guardians must have an IRP. Transit visas If you are travelling through Ireland on your way to another country, you may need a transit visa when arriving in Ireland on their way to another country. A transit visa does not permit you to leave the port or airport. If you are a citizen of one of the following countries, you will need a valid Irish transit visa when landing in the State: Countries that require an Irish transit visa Afghanistan Iran Albania Iraq Bolivia Lebanon Botswana Lesotho Cuba Moldova Democratic Republic of the Congo Nauru Dominica Nigeria Eritrea Somalia Eswatini South Africa Ethiopia Sri Lanka Georgia Trinidad and Tobago Ghana Vanuatu Honduras Visa waivers for UK visa holders The Short Stay Visa Waiver Programme allows nationals of a number of Eastern European, Middle Eastern and Asian countries who have a short-term UK visa, to come to Ireland without the need for a separate Irish visa. The countries included in the scheme are: Bahrain Bosnia and Herzegovina China Colombia India Indonesia Kazakhstan Kosovo Kuwait Montenegro North Macedonia Oman Peru Philippines Qatar Saudi Arabia Serbia Thailand Türkiye Ukraine Uzbekistan Vietnam Citizens of India and China , who have a short stay UK visa can travel to Ireland under the British Irish Visa Scheme (BIVS) without a separate Irish visa. You can also use your Irish visa to travel to the UK. Your visa must be endorsed with ‘BIVS’. School Student Visa Waiver School students who are citizens of a country that would normally need a visa to enter Ireland can apply for a waiver if they live in an EU or EEA country and are travelling as part of a school trip. The principal of the school must complete an application form and present this form to immigration upon arrival. Do I need preclearance? If you do not need a visa to come to Ireland, you may still have to apply for preclearance. Preclearance is permission to enter Ireland to apply to reside for certain reasons. You have to apply for preclearance if you want to come to Ireland: To volunteer As a minister of religion As the de facto partner of a Critical Skills Employment Permit or Hosting Agreement holder As the de facto partner of an Irish citizen As the family member of a UK citizen A de facto partnership is when you are in a relationship with someone that is like a marriage. You can apply for pre-clearance online. If you are approved, and you intend to stay in Ireland for more than 3 months, you have to register for an Irish Residence Permit after you arrive in Ireland. How to apply for a visa or preclearance You must apply for an entry visa or preclearance online . There is information on how to complete an online application in English (pdf) as well as in Arabic (pdf) , Chinese (pdf) , Russian (pdf) , Hindi (pdf) , French (pdf) , Turkish (pdf) and Urdu (pdf) . Details of the photographic requirements and current processing times are on the ISD website. Biometric data : All visa applicants residing in Nigeria must provide biometric data . Applicants residing in Pakistan, India and China must provide fingerprints. Rates The standard non-refundable visa application processing fees are: Entry and re-entry visas A single journey visa costs €60 and will be valid for one entry to the State up to a maximum of 90 days from the date of issue. A multi journey visa costs €100 and will be valid for multiple entries to the State up to a maximum of 5 years from the date of issue. A transit visa costs €25. There may also be communications charges in some cases. Information about these charges, and on the fee in your local currency, is available from your local Irish embassy or consulate. Who does not pay the fee? Some applicants are not required to pay a fee . This includes visa-required spouses and certain family members of EEA citizens (including Irish nationals) provided that proof of the relationship is provided with the application. In addition, applicants from some countries are not required to pay a fee. As this can change from time to time, you should check with your local Irish embassy or consulate, or with the Visa Office. Further information and contacts Information about visas is available from your nearest Irish embassy or consulate . Visa Office Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 D02 XK70 Ireland Homepage: https://www.irishimmigration.ie/ Email: travelrequest@justice.ie Re-entry Visa Processing Office Department of Justice Immigration Service Delivery 13/14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 Ireland Opening Hours: 8.30am - 1:30pm Mon-Fri (excluding public holidays) Homepage: https://www.irishimmigration.ie/ Page edited: 10 June 2026 Related documents Before you come to Ireland You need to know if you entitled to live, work or study in Ireland. 733.1531 Permission to enter Ireland All non-EEA nationals need permission to enter Ireland, even if they are not required to have a visa to enter Ireland. 666.94543 Getting a divorce in Ireland A decree of divorce is a court order saying the marriage is dissolved (officially over). It also means that you are free to remarry. However, special conditions must be met before a court can grant a divorce. 653.6505 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
