Registration of non-EEA nationals Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Moving Country > Moving to Ireland > Rights of residence in Ireland > Registration of non-EEA nationals Registration of non-EEA nationals Introduction Who has to register with immigration? How to register with immigration and get an Irish Residence Permit How to renew your Irish Residence Permit Travelling abroad Immigration stamps Contacts Introduction If you are not a citizen of the European Economic Area (EEA) , the United Kingdom or Switzerland, you need permission to enter Ireland. If you want to stay for more than 3 months you must have permission to remain and register your presence in Ireland with Immigration Service Delivery (ISD). This is how you get an Irish Residence Permit (IRP). Who has to register with immigration? You must register with ISD and get an Irish Residence Permit (IRP), if you plan to stay in Ireland for over 3 months and you: Are a citizen of a country outside the EEA (EU and Norway, Iceland and Lichtenstein), Switzerland and the UK Have received permission to remain in Ireland Are 16 or over (if you are living in Ireland already and are about to turn 16, you must register) All non-EEA citizens issued with a residence card under EU Treaty Rights (including those under 16) must register for an IRP. People who have recently arrived from Ukraine The Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration has started to issue Irish Resident Permit (IRP) cards to beneficiaries of the EU Temporary Protection Directive . You can read about coming to Ireland from Ukraine. Permission to remain You may have already applied to ISD for permission to remain in the State and received a letter granting your permission. This could be because you have: Refugee or subsidiary protection status following an application for international protection Leave to remain following an application for international protection Permission to remain in Ireland as the family member of an EEA national Permission to remain in Ireland as the family member of an Irish citizen Permission to remain as the parent of an Irish citizen child Any other permission to remain that was made by application while you were in Ireland You should bring the letter you got from ISD with you when you go to register. ‘D’ or long stay visa holders If you have recently come to Ireland on a ‘D’ (long stay) visa, or you are a citizen of a country that does not require an entry visa (non-visa required), you can register with ISD without making a written application in advance. This could be because you are: Joining a family member who has international protection in Ireland (family reunification) Joining or moving to Ireland with your Irish spouse or family member Joining or moving to Ireland with your dependant Irish family member An international student On a working holiday visa Moving to Ireland with an employment permit How to register with immigration and get an Irish Residence Permit When you first arrive in Ireland and are allowed to enter the country, you will get a landing stamp in your passport. This stamp gives you permission to stay and tells you that you must register with immigration within 90 days . As soon as possible following your arrival in Ireland, you should book your appointment to register with the Irish immigration authorities , known as Immigration Service Delivery (ISD). All first-time registration applicants must use the online customer portal to book an appointment to register at the ISD Registration Office, Burgh Quay, Dublin. You can create your account on the customer portal before you travel to Ireland. When you arrive in Ireland, log in to the customer portal and book your appointment to register with immigration. Appointments are normally available at the ISD Registration Office, Burgh Quay, Dublin within 2-3 weeks. What must I bring? The documents you need will depend on the immigration permission you are applying for. You can find out the documents you will need to register with immigration in Ireland on the ISD website. How much does it cost? You must pay a fee of €300 for your Irish Residence Permit (IRP). Your IRP is free if you: Have refugee status Have subsidiary protection status Have leave to remain under Section 49 of the International Protection Act 2015 Are under 18 Are resident based on your marriage to an Irish citizen Are a family member of an EU citizen Are a victim of domestic abuse What happens after I register? Following registration with immigration officials, you will be issued with an Irish Residence Permit (IRP) by post. You must carry your card with you at all times and show it to an immigration officer or the Garda Síochána if requested. You should inform Immigration Service Delivery if you change your address or your name. How to renew your Irish Residence Permit Online renewals You can renew your permission online . You must have less than 12 weeks left on your current permission before you can use the online renewal system. Your IRP card will be posted to you. The ISD website provides a live update on processing times for renewal applications . To renew your IRP online, you should: Complete the online registration form Scan and upload your documents Pay the fee Get a reference number (by email) You must scan and upload the following documents when you are applying: Biometric page of your current passport (the photo page) Front and back of your current IRP You should also upload documents that show that you are satisfying your immigration conditions. This depends on your situation, and may include: Evidence that you are supporting your Irish citizen child Proof that you have paid your college fees, have met the attendance requirements and are enrolled in a college course Proof that you are living with your spouse or partner (if applying based on your relationship with them) Your employment permit You can read a full list of documents on the ISD website. Working while waiting for your new IRP If you are an employee and your IRP card expires before your new one arrives, you can remain in the State for 12 weeks from the date the old card expires. This only applies if you give your employer proof that you applied for the new IRP card before the old one expired. You can use the confirmation email you get from ISD when you apply to renew your IRP as proof of this. The conditions of your old card apply until the new one arrives. IRP card for Christmas travel Non-EEA nationals in Ireland may use their current recently expired IRP card, proof of their IRP renewal application and a Travel Confirmation Notice to travel abroad and return to Ireland from 8 December 2025 to 28 February 2026. You can only do this if your application to renew your immigration permission was submitted before the expiry date on your IRP Card. You can find more detailed information about Christmas travel and IRP cards . Travelling abroad Non-EEA nationals who wish to travel abroad must have a valid IRP card to re-enter Ireland. A soft copy of your IRP card is not acceptable for travel. If you want to travel abroad, you should contact the country that you are travelling to and find out about their requirements, such as the required immigration permission and documentation. Immigration stamps As well as your Irish Residence Permit (IRP), you will also receive a stamp in your passport , which specifies the duration and the conditions of your permission to remain in Ireland. If you are renewing online, you will not receive a stamp in your passport. The following table lists the different types of stamp issued to non-EEA nationals: Different types of stamp issued to non-EEA nationals Stamp number Issued to 0 People with permission to remain in Ireland for a specific, temporary and limited purpose, for example: Visiting academics Retired people of independent means Elderly dependent relatives of people living in Ireland 1 People who have received an employment permit , a working holiday authorisation or permission to open a business 1H Doctors with General Employment Permits 1A Trainee accountants 1G Graduates who are permitted to remain under the Third Level Graduate Scheme Spouses and partners of Critical Skills Employment Permit Holders Spouses and partners of doctors who have Stamp 1H or Stamp 4 Spouse or partner of a General Employment Permit or an Intra-Corporate Transferee (ICT) permit A minor child on turning 16 with permission to live in Ireland under the Non-EEA Family Reunification Policy as the dependent of a Critical Skills Employment Permit, General Employment Permit, Researcher on a Hosting Agreement, an Intra-Corporate Transferee permit or full-time non-locum doctor. 2 Students who are attending a recognised full-time course of at least one year. They are permitted to work for 20 hours a week during term time and full time during holidays. 2A Students who are attending a course not on the list of eligible courses for a student visa (including private secondary schools). They are not permitted to work. 3 People who are not permitted to work. This includes: Ministers of religion and members of religious orders Volunteers Spouses, civil partners and dependants of certain employment permit holders. 4 People who can work without an employment permit. This includes: Spouses of Irish citizens Partners of Irish citizens People granted international protection (refugee status or subsidiary protection) People granted leave to remain following an appeal of a 'notification of intention to deport' under Section 3 of the Immigration Act 1999, or following a refusal of an application for international protection Parents of an Irish citizen child People who have been granted long term residency People who have completed 57 months on a General Employment Permit People who have completed 21 months on a Stamp 1 or 1H permission on the basis of a Critical Skills Employment Permit , Hosting Agreement as a Researcher or a Multi-Site General Employment Permit as a Non-Consultant Hospital Doctor 4D Family members of UK citizens who were granted residence after 1 January 2021 4S People who received permission to remain as &lsquo;timed out students&rsquo;. This scheme closed in January 2019 4 (EU FAM) Family members of EU nationals who have exercised their right to move to and live in Ireland . They do not need an employment permit or business permission to work. 5 People who have permission to remain without any time conditions . 6 People who are dual citizens and ask for an endorsement in their non-Irish passport Contacts Contact your local immigration registration office . Page edited: 3 February 2026 Related documents Residence rights of non-EEA nationals How non-EEA nationals may be granted permission to remain that allows them to live in Ireland. 1770.7957 Types of residence permission for non-EEA nationals There are various types of residence rights or permission to remain that allow non-EEA nationals to live in Ireland. 1673.9377 Registration of marriage How do you register a marriage in Ireland, and how can you get a copy of your marriage certificate. 1060.2297 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
