I want to retire to Ireland - Immigration Service Delivery Skip to content Choose your language Português (Brasil) Українська Français Polski Deutsch 中文 (简体) Русский Español Gaeilge العربية‏ Türkçe हिंदी اردو Search ISD More results... Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us I want to retire to Ireland Home Coming to live in Ireland I want to retire to Ireland In This Section Introduction Eligibility Submit an application Non visa required people Required documents Renewing your permission Processing times Introduction If you wish to retire to Ireland you must be financially independent and meet all conditions. You will be required to provide independent verification of your compliance with the financial conditions. This verification must be certified by an Irish accountancy firm. The application process is explained below. People from visa required countries must apply for a D Reside visa before arriving in Ireland, and all applicants must apply for Stamp 0 before arriving in Ireland. Eligibility In order to be eligible for a retirement permission you must be able to support yourself financially. This means that you are not entitled to access State benefits while resident here on a retirement permission. People of independent means For people of independent means who wish to retire to Ireland, you should have an individual income of &euro;50,000 per year. You must also have access to a lump sum of money to cover any sudden major expenses. This lump sum should be equal to, for example, the price of a residential dwelling in the State. Financial documentation should be presented in spreadsheet form and converted into euros. It should clearly show all income and spending each month. This must be certified by an Irish accountancy firm who has the expert knowledge to understand the format of overseas banking/accountancy documentation. Submit an application There are two or three steps to the process and registering as a non-EEA national, depending on your circumstances: Step 1 Apply for permission Jump to Step 1 Step 2 Apply for visa (only necessary if you are visa required) Jump to Step 2 Step 3 Complete the application process and register Jump to Step 3 Step 1: Apply for permission If you are visa required or non-visa required you must apply for permission by completing the TPER application form and sending the required documentation to: Stamp 0 &ndash; Independent Means Section Unit C &ndash; Domestic Residence and Permissions Division Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice to Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2, DO2 XK70 Ireland If your application is successful, you will be issued with a Conditional Letter of Offer and an Agreement Form from Domestic Residence and Permissions Division. This Conditional Letter of Offer is given on the condition that you meet any required visa checks and is subject to the discretion of the Immigration Officer when you enter the State. Step 2: Apply for visa (this is only necessary if you are visa required) If you are a visa required person and have received your Conditional Letter of Offer from Domestic Residence and Permissions Division to retire to Ireland then you must contact your local visa office to apply for a visa to enter the State. In order to reside in the State on retirement conditions, you must apply for a D-Reside Visa . When submitting your application for a D-Reside Visa, you must include your Conditional Letter of Offer. It is very important that you obtain a D-Reside Visa before entering the State. If you do not enter the State with a D-Reside Visa, you will not be able to complete the registration process that will allow you to reside in Ireland. Once you have received your Conditional Letter of Offer and you have been granted the correct D-Reside visa, you may travel to the State. Please note that entry to the State is always at the discretion of the Immigration Officer at the port of entry. Non-visa required people If you are a non-visa required person who wishes to retire to Ireland and you meet the conditions, once you have received your Conditional Letter of Offer you may travel to the State. Note : The granting of visitor permission at the port of entry does not mean that your application for retirement to Ireland will be successful. Step 3: Complete the application process and register When you arrive in the State you should send the signed Agreement Form that was sent to you with your Conditional Letter of Offer, and your passport to: Stamp 0 &ndash; Independent means Unit A &ndash; Domestic Residence and Permissions Division Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice to Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 D02 XK70 Ireland Domestic Residence and Permissions Division will add a stamp to your passport and return it to you. You must then make an appointment to visit the Burgh Quay Registration Office in order to be fingerprinted and registered. Following this you will receive an Irish Residence Permit. Required documents Documents required for initial application for permission People of independent means: Clear and legible copy of your passport (all pages) Copy of your birth certificate Copy of marriage certificate Reason for request for permission Details of all family members resident in the State and their legal status in the State Details of Irish Associations Evidence of all finances available to you (for example, six months of bank statements) Evidence of your finances verified by an Irish based accountant listing yearly income and any financial liabilities. Investment sums are not normally measured &ndash; finances must be in the form of pension income or readily accessible funds Evidence of private medical insurance with full cover in private hospitals Police Clearance Certificate Health Declaration Any other information you consider relevant to your case. Renewing your permission If you wish to renew your Stamp 0 permission please complete the TPER Renewal Form . Use our dedicated Customer Service portal to submit the completed form and supporting documentation. You can register for an account or log in to your existing account. If you are unable to upload the required documentation then a caseworker will be in touch to request it from you. Requests will be issued to your email correspondence address. We no longer request the submission of a passport in order to complete the renewal process. After an application for renewal is approved you will receive an approval letter which you may use to renew your IRP card registration. Processing times The average processing time for applications is four months. Delays can be expected when applicants do not send in all of the required documents with their original application. Applications are processed in chronological order. This page was last updated on October 15, 2025 Contact Us Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 D02 XK70 Ireland Social Channels Our Location Click here to view our location Useful Links Privacy Policy and Cookies Accessibility Disclaimer Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) Online – Terms and Conditions Immigration Legislation and Policy Guidelines Freedom of Information (FOI) Protecting Personal Data in the Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration Sitemap © Copyright - An Roinn Dlí agus Cirt, Gnóthaí Baile agus Imirce | Department Of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration | All Rights Reserved Facebook X Instagram Pinterest Page load link Close Font Resize A- A+ Reset font size Keyboard navigation Underline links Highlight Links Clear cookies Invert Colors Close Accessibility by WAH Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Have questions? Why not use our Citizenship Assistant! Go to Top
