Tax residence and domicile in Ireland Cookies on citizensinformation.ie We use cookies to collect information about how you use citizensinformation.ie. This helps us to improve your experience. You can find out more about the cookies we use in our Cookie notice . You can also read our Privacy policy . You can accept all cookies or you can chose which cookies to accept or reject. You can change your cookie preferences at any time by using the My cookie preferences link at the bottom of each page. Reject cookies Manage my preferences Accept all cookies Cookie preferences Cookies used by Google Analytics We use Google Analytics to measure how you use the website so we can improve it. We have configured Google Analytics to anonymise your IP address so that you are not personally identified. We gather information on: How you got to the site The pages you visit on citizensinformation.ie, and how long you spend on each page What you click while you are visiting the site Allow analytics cookies Save preferences Close Skip navigation and go to main content English | Gaeilge Categories Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice What&#x27;s New My Situation I am... I am a person with a disability Returning to Ireland Unemployed Starting a business Looking for employment schemes Going to college See more... I want to... Apply for a medical card Apply for a GP visit card Apply for a passport Apply for a driving licence Get a Police Certificate Buy a used car Register to vote See more... Find a Centre Find a Citizens Information Centre in your area: Carlow Cavan Clare Cork Donegal Dublin Galway Kerry Kildare Kilkenny Laois Leitrim Limerick Longford Louth Mayo Meath Monaghan Offaly Roscommon Sligo Tipperary Waterford Westmeath Wexford Wicklow Volunteering AskCI Categories What&#x27;s New My Situation Find a Centre Volunteering AskCI You are here: Home > Money and Tax > Tax > Moving country and taxation > Tax residence and domicile in Ireland Tax residence and domicile in Ireland Introduction Residence for tax purposes Choosing to be resident for tax purposes Ordinary residence Residence and married couples or civil partners What is domicile in Ireland? Tax implications Contact Introduction Your liability for tax in Ireland can be affected by whether you are resident in the country and whether Ireland is your permanent home. There is a specific definition of residence for tax purposes depending on how many days you spend in the country. If you are not resident in a particular year, Ireland can still be your ‘ordinary residence’ since this term refers to the country where you are usually resident over a number of years. The country that is your permanent home is known as your domicile . Residence for tax purposes Your residence for tax purposes depends on the number of days that you are present in Ireland during a tax year. A tax year runs from 1 January to 31 December. You are resident for tax purposes for a year if you spend 183 days or more in Ireland in that year. Alternatively, if you spend 280 days or more in Ireland over a period of 2 consecutive tax years, you will be regarded as resident for the second tax year. You must be in Ireland for a minimum of 31 days each year. For example, if you spend 140 days here in Year 1 and 150 days here in Year 2, you will be resident in Ireland for Year 2. You are treated as being present in Ireland for a day if you are present at any time during that day. Choosing to be resident for tax purposes If you arrive in Ireland in a particular year but do not have the required number of days for tax purposes, you can still choose to be resident for that year if you will be resident in the following year. You must inform Revenue in writing if you choose to be tax resident in Ireland in a tax year. Contact Revenue for details. Ordinary residence Your pattern of residence over a number of years is taken into account to decide your ‘ordinary residence’. If you have been resident for the previous 3 tax years, then you become ordinarily resident from the start of the fourth year. If you leave the country, you will continue to be ordinarily resident until you have been non-resident for 3 continuous tax years. See revenue.ie for more information on ordinary residence . Residence and married couples or civil partners For a married couple or civil partners, the residence status of each spouse is assessed independently of the other. It is possible for one spouse or civil partner to be resident and the other to be non-resident. If you are resident and your spouse is not, you are treated as single for tax purposes. However, if you are resident and employed in Ireland but your spouse or civil partner is not resident in Ireland and has no income - so that your earnings are the only source of income - you may be able to claim the Married or Civil Partner&#x27;s Tax Credit and the increased tax rate band . You can do this by making an income tax return, which includes a declaration about your spouse or civil partner&#x27;s income. What is domicile in Ireland? Your domicile is the country where you live with the intention of remaining there permanently. It may be different to your residence or nationality. When you are born, you have a domicile of origin . This domicile can be changed to a domicile of choice, if you move to a different country with the intention of living there permanently. Irish domicile levy You may have to pay a domicile levy if: You are Irish domiciled Your worldwide income in the year exceeds €1m You have Irish property with a value greater than €5m, and Your Irish income tax for the year is less than €200,000 The amount of the levy is €200,000 per year. Any Irish income tax paid by you in a tax year is allowed as a credit when calculating the amount of domicile levy due for that year. The levy is payable each year on or before 31 October in the year following the valuation date (on a self-assessment basis ). The valuation date is 31 December each year. For example, the levy for the year 2025 is due and payable on or before 31 October 2026. You can get more information about the domicile levy from Revenue . Tax implications Residence and domicile are taken into account for a number of taxes including income tax , Deposit Interest Retention Tax (DIRT) , Capital Acquisitions Tax and Capital Gains Tax . Contact Telephone numbers and contact details for Revenue tax sections are available on the revenue.ie contact page . Page edited: 15 December 2025 Related documents Residence rights of EU citizens and their families in Ireland EEA nationals have the right to travel to Ireland and do not require a residence permit to remain here. There are however some limits on these rights. 869.6859 Coming to Ireland - tax and social insurance Important information for those coming to work in Ireland about tax issues of residence, domicile, double taxation, income earned prior to moving, and temporary employment in Ireland. 701.72906 Children and rights in Ireland This document describes a child&#x27;s rights in areas such as education, employment, travel, recreation, health and relationships. 677.1153 Contact Us If you have a question about this topic you can contact the Citizens Information Phone Service on 0818 07 4000 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 8pm). You can also contact your local Citizens Information Centre . Find information on... Health Social Welfare Employment Money and Tax Moving Country Returning to Ireland Housing Education and Training Travel and Recreation Environment Consumer Government in Ireland Death and Bereavement Family and Relationships Justice About Volunteer with Citizens Information About Citizens Information Accessibility Statement Guide to accessibility tools Contact us CIS Complaints Policy CIS Customer Charter Cookie notice Disclaimer Send feedback about citizensinformation.ie Privacy statement Re-use of Public Sector Information About AskCI Phone CIPS 0818 07 4000 Visit your local CIC View our publications Money Advice and Budgeting Service National Advocacy Service Sign Language Interpreting Service Manage cookie preferences Manage preferences
