Coming to join family in Ireland - Immigration Service Delivery Skip to content Choose your language Português (Brasil) Українська Français Polski Deutsch 中文 (简体) Русский Español Gaeilge العربية‏ Türkçe हिंदी اردو Search ISD More results... Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Coming to join family in Ireland Explore your options Not sure where to start? Click here for our join family travel path If you want to join a family member in Ireland and you are a non-EU/EEA and non-Swiss national, you will need to apply for the relevant permission. Read more below about the different joining options. Refugees and Beneficiaries of Subsidiary Protection : From 12 June 2026, you are no longer eligible to apply for family reunification under the Non-EEA Family Reunification Policy. You must instead apply through a separate procedure under section 205 of the International Protection Act 2026, unless the application is regarding a relationship that formed after your entry to the State (subject to a minimum waiting period of 2 years from the date on which you were granted international protection, which cannot be waived). Please visit: Family Reunification of International Protection Holders &times; Joining options An Irish national If you wish to come to Ireland to reside for more than 3 months with a family member who is an Irish citizen you can apply for a long stay (join family) visa. A UK national If you wish to come to Ireland to reside with a UK national family member you will need to apply (depending on nationality) through a preclearance or visa scheme. An EEA or Swiss national If you wish to come to Ireland for more than 3 months as a family member of an EU citizen you can apply for a &lsquo;Residence Card of a Family Member of a Union Citizen&rsquo; (also referred to as an EU Treaty Rights application). A non-EEA or non-Swiss national If you wish to come to Ireland to reside for more than 3 months with a family member who is a non-EEA or non-Swiss national who is lawfully resident in Ireland you can apply for a long stay (join family) visa. An international protection beneficiary Family Reunification under the International Protection Act 2015 gives certain family members an immigration permission allowing them to live in Ireland with the holder of an international protection declaration. Afghan Admission Programme If you wish to come to Ireland as the family member of an Afghan national under the Afghan Admission Programme you can read about that scheme here. Other join family information After you arrive In this page we will explain what you have to do after you arrive in the State. As you are staying for more than 90 days you will have to register with the Garda National Immigration Bureau or Immigration Service Delivery Registration Office. Guide to using the visa application system A step-by-step guide on how to use the visa application system can be found at this page. This guide can be translated into a number of different languages by simply clicking on the &lsquo;Choose your language&rsquo; link at the top of that page. Financial Thresholds A guide to financial requirements for sponsoring a family member to join you. Policy Document Archive Policy documents for further information. Frequently asked questions This section provides answers to questions you may have. This page was last updated on June 12, 2026 Contact Us Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 D02 XK70 Ireland Social Channels Our Location Click here to view our location Useful Links Privacy Policy and Cookies Accessibility Disclaimer Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) Online – Terms and Conditions Immigration Legislation and Policy Guidelines Freedom of Information (FOI) Protecting Personal Data in the Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration Sitemap © Copyright - An Roinn Dlí agus Cirt, Gnóthaí Baile agus Imirce | Department Of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration | All Rights Reserved Facebook X Instagram Pinterest Page load link Close Font Resize A- A+ Reset font size Keyboard navigation Underline links Highlight Links Clear cookies Invert Colors Close Accessibility by WAH Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Have questions? Why not use our Citizenship Assistant! Go to Top
