Employment visa - Immigration Service Delivery Skip to content Choose your language Português (Brasil) Українська Français Polski Deutsch 中文 (简体) Русский Español Gaeilge العربية‏ Türkçe हिंदी اردو Search ISD More results... Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Employment visa Home Coming to work in Ireland What are my work visa options? Applying for a long stay employment visa Employment visa In This Section What is a long stay employment visa? How do I apply? Required documents What happens next? What is a long stay employment visa? If you wish to work in Ireland, you need to have an Employment Permit. This permit is issued by the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment (DETE) . DETE issues various types of employment permits including a Critical Skills Employment Permit. This is aimed at skilled workers who are qualified in professions where there is a shortage of skills in Ireland. Another type of permission that allows you to work in Ireland is the Atypical Permission . This allows you to work in a job not covered by other employment rules. These can include locum doctor, midwifery nurse, paid interns or crew on a fishing fleet. Once you have received a permit, you are eligible to apply for an Employment Visa. How do I apply? You should apply for a long stay employment visa up to 3 months before your date of travel to Ireland. You must apply from your home country or where you are a legal resident. If you are visiting another state prior to travelling to Ireland, you must have the relevant visa for that state in your passport before applying for an Irish visa. To apply, follow these three steps : 1. Create a visa application online Use the Automated Visa Application and Tracking System (AVATS) to apply for your visa online Answer all questions in AVATS fully and honestly Follow the instructions on the Summary Application Form created by the online system. This summary form will contain information on where you are to submit your supporting documentation Print, sign and date the summary form and submit it with your supporting documentation. The visa officer considers each application on its merits and may request additional information or documentation. 2. Pay the visa application fee Details of the current visa fees are available here . The fee covers the administrative cost of processing your application. This will not be refunded if you withdraw your application or if we refuse your application. Some applicants are exempt and do not need to pay visa fees. Click here to check if you are exempt from paying Visa fees. You will receive an Application Summary Form when you complete your AVATS online application. This will let you know how to submit your application for processing and pay your visa fee. Payment methods and currency options may differ between offices. Extra charges may apply for some applications, such as consular fees. 3. Send your supporting documents Prepare your documents carefully. They contain information that we need to make a decision about your visa application. It is your responsibility to provide all information to help us process your application quickly and fairly. Sending these documents does not guarantee that your application will be successful. Further information if you are required to submit your documents to the Dublin Visa Office When you are satisfied that you have prepared your application documents, put them in a strong padded envelope and send them to your application office. Be sure to pay the correct postage for large packages. You must do this within 30 days of creating an online application via AVATS. We will not process your application until we receive everything. If you are making a visa application for yourself and another person, you may send them together. To send together: Place each person&rsquo;s application documents into separate envelopes Write the name and Visa Application Transaction Number of each applicant on each envelope Place each envelope into a larger envelope and send it to the application office. Original documents must be provided. We do not accept photocopies except where stated. If you want to submit a document that is not in English or Irish, it must be accompanied by a full certified translation . All letters submitted from a business, company or organisation must be original and on official headed paper . This is to make sure that they can be verified. They must show the organisation&rsquo;s: Full name Full postal address Telephone number. This must be a fixed line number. We do not accept mobile or cell phone numbers. Website address Email address. Yahoo and Hotmail email addresses are not accepted. A contact person&rsquo;s name and title or position Written signature of an authorised representative. Electronic signatures are not accepted. In some cases, you may need to provide biometric information as part of your application. Contact your application office who will confirm if you need to provide biometric information and how to do so. The visa officer considers each application on its merits. They may request additional information or documentation. NOTE: Do not include false or misleading information or documents in your application. If you do, your application may be refused. In some circumstances, you may not be allowed to appeal the visa decision and may be blocked from getting an Irish visa for 5 years. Required documents Your signed and dated Summary Application Form and appropriate fee (if applicable) must be accompanied by supporting documentation. If you do not submit the required documentation, your application may be refused. Do not submit documentation on USB sticks, memory cards, CD ROMs as documents on these devices cannot be accessed. Do not submit documentation on file-sharing platforms such as Drop Box, Sharefile. Documents in hardcopy format only will be accepted The documents required are: Passport More Information Passport Photographs More Information Medical or Travel Insurance More Information Application Letter More Information Visa Refusals More Information Employment Permit from the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment More Information Contract of Employment More Information Letter from Employer in Ireland More Information Evidence of Qualifications More Information Finances More Information &times; Passport Photographs Include two passport-sized colour photographs with your application. These must not be more than 6 months old. On the back of each photo: Sign your name in your own handwriting and language Write your Visa Application Transaction Number from AVATS Each photograph must meet all the following rules for visa photographs . &times; Passport Send us your current passport . This must be valid for at least twelve months after the date you plan to arrive in Ireland. Include a photocopy of each page from all previous passports , if available. Your application may be delayed if you do not provide these. In some cases, you may need to provide biometric information as part of your application. Contact your application office who will confirm if you need to provide biometric information and how to do so. &times; Application Letter Type or write a letter explaining why you want to come to Ireland. Sign and date the letter and submit it with your documents. Your letter must include your full name and postal address, and: Your full contact details Your reason for wanting to come to Ireland How long you intend to stay Details of any members of your family who are currently in Ireland, or any other EU Member State Details of where you intend to stay while you are in Ireland Your commitment that you will observe the conditions of your visa, that you will not become a burden on the State, and that you will leave the State on the expiry of your permission to remain in Ireland. &times; Employment Permit from the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment You must supply one of the following: Critical Skills Employment Permit General Employment Permit Intra-Company Transfer Employment Permit Contract for Services Employment Permit Exchange Agreement Employment Permit Internship Employment Permit Sports & Cultural Employment Permit. &times; Contract of Employment If you have an Employment Contract please submit it. If you do not please submit a letter from your employer. &times; Letter from Employer in Ireland The letter should include: Details of your new job The salary you will be paid Details of the accommodation, if the employer is providing you with accommodation. &times; Evidence of Qualifications Evidence of qualifications and previous work experience must be submitted in support of the visa application. For example: Your 3 most recent payslips Regular salary payments to your personal bank account Employment letter from your current employer Personal tax statements Professional certificates Training certificates. &times; Finances You must provide an up-to-date bank statement, showing what money has been paid into and out of the account over the last six months, and showing sufficient funds to cover your costs. Bank statements must be on headed paper &ndash; internet printouts will not be accepted. Your name, address, account number and account type must be visible on the statement. Any large lodgements must be explained. If you are sending a bank statement from a deposit or savings account, you must also include a letter from your bank confirming that you are allowed to withdraw money from that account. &times; Medical or Travel Insurance Evidence of medical or travel insurance does not need to be provided with your application. However, the Visa Officer may request it before they make a decision on your application. If your visa is approved, you must have evidence of medical or travel insurance when you arrive at the port of entry (airport or seaport) and must present it to the Immigration Officer on request. &times; Visa Refusals For all visa or preclearance applications, if you have been refused a visa or preclearance in the past for any country, you must provide details to us. The original letter issued to you by the authorities of that country must be provided with your application. Not disclosing any previous visa refusals will result in your application being refused. In addition if you have: Been deported from any country Been refused entry to any country Been otherwise required to leave any country (including overstaying in any country). You must provide original documentation issued by the authorities of that country with your application and a full explanation for consideration. What happens next? Applications are processed in date order. You are advised not to purchase travel tickets before you know the outcome of your visa application. What happens when my visa application has been received? When we receive your application, we will check that you have included: Signed and dated Application Summary Sheets Proof of payment of the visa application fee (if applicable) All other requested documents. We may contact you to ask for more information or documents. We may also: Send your passport/travel document for official authentication Contact An Garda S&iacute;och&aacute;na (Irish police) for information about you Contact government departments or other agencies for information about you, such as INTERPOL. When will I get my visa decision? We process visa applications in the order we receive them. Processing times can vary between countries and different application types. They can also vary during high volume periods during the year. However, applicants can expect a decision within approximately 8 weeks from the date their application was received at the visa office, embassy or consulate. Please note : Your application may take longer if documents are missing, we need to verify them or because of personal circumstances. For example, if you have a criminal conviction. Dublin Visa Office If you sent your application to the Dublin Visa Office, new visa decisions and waiting times are published every Tuesday. All other offices If you sent your application to an international visa office, Irish embassy or consulate, contact that office for an update on your application. What happens if my visa application is approved? We will place an Irish visa into a blank page of your passport or travel document. We will return your passport or travel document and certain original documents by post, such as Marriage, Birth or Death Certificates and other documents listed by you. Note on visas for young people (aged under 18): An Irish visa issued to a young person aged under 18 will show if they are travelling alone (unaccompanied) or with an adult (accompanied). What happens if my visa application is refused? We will send you a Letter of Refusal that explains why your application was not approved. We will return your passport or travel document and certain original documents by post, such as Marriage, Birth or Death Certificates and other documents listed by you. Applications sent to Ireland can only be returned to a UK or Ireland address. You can arrange a courier service to collect your documents. You can appeal a negative visa decision . You must submit an appeal within 2 months of the date on your Letter of Refusal. You do not have to pay to make an appeal. At border control An Irish visa allows you to travel to Ireland. It does not give you permission to enter the country. You can be refused entry even if you have a visa. Details about what to expect at border control Suggested documents to present at border control When you arrive at border control, you must prove to the immigration officer that you have a valid reason for entering Ireland. To do so you will need your passport, visa and other documents. For example, you should bring copies of documents from your application with you when you travel. If you cannot satisfy the immigration officer, you will not be able to enter Ireland. Leaving Ireland and returning home The period of time you are able to stay in Ireland is visible on the landing stamp in your passport. You must leave the country before your permission expires. Ireland does not issue exit stamps when leaving the country. It is against the law to remain here without permission. Extending your stay In rare and exceptional circumstances, you may apply to extend your permission to stay in Ireland . To apply for an extension, the circumstances of your visit must change in an unforeseen way after you arrive in the country. We will not grant an extension for any non-emergency or foreseeable reason, such as additional tourism. You must be in Ireland to apply and submit an application before your existing permission expires. This page was last updated on September 23, 2024 Contact Us Immigration Service Delivery Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration 13-14 Burgh Quay Dublin 2 D02 XK70 Ireland Social Channels Our Location Click here to view our location Useful Links Privacy Policy and Cookies Accessibility Disclaimer Immigration Service Delivery (ISD) Online – Terms and Conditions Immigration Legislation and Policy Guidelines Freedom of Information (FOI) Protecting Personal Data in the Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration Sitemap © Copyright - An Roinn Dlí agus Cirt, Gnóthaí Baile agus Imirce | Department Of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration | All Rights Reserved Facebook X Instagram Pinterest Page load link Close Font Resize A- A+ Reset font size Keyboard navigation Underline links Highlight Links Clear cookies Invert Colors Close Accessibility by WAH Home Get Started I would like to come to Ireland to… Visit Work Study Live Join Family I’m in Ireland and I&#8217;d like to learn more about… Border controls Registering your immigration permission Becoming a citizen Quick Links My situation has changed since I arrived in Ireland Latest Visa/Preclearance Decisions Residency Calculator International Protection Office International Protection Accommodation Service Glossary of Immigration Terms News and Updates Contact Us Have questions? Why not use our Citizenship Assistant! Go to Top
