Family visas: apply, extend or switch: Apply as a partner or spouse - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Family in the UK Family visas: apply, extend or switch Skip contents Contents Overview Apply as a partner or spouse Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse Apply as a parent Apply as a child Apply as an adult coming to be cared for by a relative Apply on the basis of your private life Information and evidence you must provide Knowledge of English After you apply Apply as a partner or spouse To apply as a partner, you and your partner both need to be 18 or over. Your partner must also either: be a British or Irish citizen have settled in the UK - for example, they have indefinite leave to remain, settled status or proof of permanent residence be from the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and have pre-settled status - they must have started living in the UK before 1 January 2021 have a Turkish Businessperson visa or Turkish Worker visa have protection status (leave to remain as a refugee, permission to stay as a refugee or a person with humanitarian protection) have got permission to stay as a stateless person before you became their partner You and your partner must intend to live together permanently in the UK after you apply. If your partner has settled or pre-settled status you may be able to apply to the free EU Settlement Scheme . What you’ll need to prove You must be able to prove one of the following: you’re in a civil partnership or marriage that’s recognised in the UK you’ve been living together in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply you are a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner and will marry or enter into a civil partnership in the UK within 6 months of arriving you’ve been in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply but you cannot live together, for example because you’re working or studying in different places, or it’s not accepted in your culture You also need to prove you: have a good knowledge of English meet the financial requirements If you cannot provide this proof you may still be able to apply for a visa or extend your permission to stay if: you have a child in the UK who is a British or Irish citizen or has lived in the UK for 7 years and it would be unreasonable for them to leave the UK it would breach your human rights to stop you coming to the UK or make you leave If you’re applying as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner You must prove that: you plan to marry or become civil partners within 6 months of arriving in the UK any previous marriages or civil partnerships have ended You cannot work or study in the UK during your engagement. After you marry or become civil partners, you’ll need to apply to extend your stay in the UK. If your application is approved, you’ll have the right to work or study. How to prove your relationship Send evidence that: comes from the government, a bank, landlord, utility provider, or a medical professional confirms your relationship with your partner - for example, that you live together, share expenses or are married or in a civil partnership is less than 4 years old You can use things like: a marriage certificate or civil partnership certificate a tenancy agreement, utility bills or Council Tax bills confirming that you live at the same address or pay bills together a bank statement from a joint bank account, or confirming that you live at the same address a letter from your doctor or dentist confirming that you live at the same address If you do not have any evidence that meets these criteria, there is other evidence you can provide instead, including: a one-off bill like vet’s fees or home repair costs letters confirming you and your partner are on the voting register for the same address student finance paperwork confirming that you live at the same address If you do not live together If you cannot live together because of work or study, or for cultural reasons, you’ll need to prove that you have an ongoing commitment to each other. You can do this by providing evidence that you: communicate regularly with each other support each other financially care for any children you have together spend time together as a couple, for example on holiday or at events How long you can stay You can stay in the UK for 2 years and 9 months. After this, you’ll need to apply to extend your stay. If you’re applying as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner You can stay in the UK for 6 months. After you marry or become civil partners, you’ll need to apply to extend your stay. Extend or switch to this visa If you extend your family visa or switch to this visa you can stay in the UK for a further 2 years and 6 months. You can extend your visa more than once. If you become engaged before extending your visa If you’re in the UK as an unmarried partner and you become engaged, do not apply to extend your visa as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner. Apply to extend with the same visa status you have now. How to apply You’ll need to prepare information and evidence to provide with your application. How you apply depends on whether you’re in the UK or not. Outside the UK You must apply online from outside the UK . In the UK You must apply online in the UK . If you cannot pay the fee You can apply for a fee waiver if you cannot pay the fee because you: do not have a place to live and cannot afford one have a place to live but cannot afford essential living costs like food or heating have a very low income and paying the fee would harm your child’s wellbeing Apply for a fee waiver online from outside the UK . Apply for a fee waiver online from inside the UK . Get help to apply online You can get help with completing the online visa application form if you: do not feel confident using a computer or mobile device do not have internet access You can only use this service if you’re applying in the UK. You cannot get immigration advice through this service. How long it takes If you apply outside the UK you’ll usually get a decision within 12 weeks. If you apply inside the UK and you meet the financial requirements and English language requirements , you’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks. If you apply inside the UK and you do not meet the financial requirements and English language requirements, it currently takes about 12 months to get a decision. You may be able to pay for a faster decision . Applying with your children You can add children to your application as dependants if both of the following apply: they are under 18 when you apply, or were under 18 when they were first granted leave they do not live an independent life Your child is living an independent life if, for example, they have left home, got married and had children. When you can settle permanently The earliest you can apply to settle in the UK (called ‘indefinite leave to remain’) is after you’ve lived in the UK for 5 years continuously on a family visa as a partner. You cannot include time you’ve spent in the UK: on any other visa as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner The rules are different if you applied before 9 July 2012. If you applied before 9 July 2012 You can only extend your family visa if all the following are true: you were given permission to stay in the UK as a partner before 9 July 2012 you are not eligible to settle in the UK you have not been granted or refused another visa You must also prove that: you have knowledge of English you and your partner have enough money to financially support yourself and your dependants without relying on public funds Check the information and evidence you’ll need to prove your income. Previous : Overview Next : Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse View a printable version of the whole guide Explore the topic Family in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
