Family visas: apply, extend or switch: Overview - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Family in the UK Family visas: apply, extend or switch Skip contents Contents Overview Apply as a partner or spouse Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse Apply as a parent Apply as a child Apply as an adult coming to be cared for by a relative Apply on the basis of your private life Information and evidence you must provide Knowledge of English After you apply Overview You need a family visa to live with a family member in the UK for more than 6 months. Applying from outside the UK You can apply for a family visa to live with your: spouse or partner fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner child parent relative who’ll provide long-term care for you If you’re visiting the UK for 6 months or less, check if you need a Standard Visitor visa or Marriage Visitor visa . Extending your family visa You can apply to extend your stay with your family member if you’re already in the UK on a family visa. You can extend at any time before your current permission to stay in the UK expires. If you’re extending to stay with the same family member, you’ll only get up to 28 days left on your current stay added to your new visa. You must live in the UK for a certain amount of time before you’re eligible for settlement (‘indefinite leave to remain’). Before you extend your visa, check how much time you need to settle in the UK . You might be able to apply to stay on the basis of your private life if you’ve lived in the UK for many years already. Switching to a family visa If you came to the UK on a different visa, you might be able to switch to a family visa to stay with your: spouse or partner child parent You can switch at any time before your current permission to stay in the UK expires. Fees How much it costs depends on who you’re joining and how you apply. Apply outside the UK Apply in the UK Cost if joining your partner, parent or child £2,064 £1,407 Cost for each dependant added to your application £2,064 each person £1,407 each person Cost for adults who need to be looked after by a relative How much it costs depends on what permission your relative has. If they have temporary ‘protection status’ (permission to stay as a refugee or with humanitarian protection) it costs: £452 if you’re applying from outside the UK £1,407 if you’re applying from inside the UK Otherwise, it costs: £3,635 if you’re applying from outside the UK £1,407 if you’re applying from inside the UK Let your bank know that a large amount of money will be coming out of your account - otherwise it might cancel your payment. If you cannot pay the fee, you may be eligible for a fee waiver in certain situations - for example if you cannot afford a place to live or your essential living costs. Healthcare surcharge You might also need to pay the healthcare surcharge as part of your application. For each adult (18 or older) it costs: £2,587.50 if you’re staying for 2 years and 6 months £3,105 if you’re staying for 2 years and 9 months £5,175 if you’re staying for 5 years For each child (under 18), it costs: £1,940 if you’re staying for 2 years and 6 months £2,328 if you’re staying for 2 years and 9 months £3,880 if you’re staying for 5 years Get a faster decision on your application If you’re applying from the UK, you may be able to pay an extra £1,000 for the super priority service to get a faster decision. You cannot use the super priority service if you’re applying as an adult coming to be cared for by a relative. If you were the victim of domestic abuse or your partner died You might be able to apply to settle in the UK if you had permission to stay in the UK as a partner when either: you were the victim of domestic abuse your partner died When you cannot get a family visa In some circumstances you cannot apply for, or switch to, a family visa. Your family member has a work visa or student visa You cannot apply for a family visa if your family member is in the UK temporarily on a work visa or student visa . You can apply to stay with them as a dependant instead. You have a visitor visa or a visa for 6 months or less You’ll usually need to leave the UK to apply for a family visa if either: you have permission to be in the UK as a visitor your visa is for 6 months or less However, you might be able to switch to a family visa in the UK if you have either: a 6-month family visa as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner permission to stay in the UK for the outcome of a family court case or divorce Next : Apply as a partner or spouse View a printable version of the whole guide Explore the topic Family in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
