Student visa : Money you need - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Student visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your course Money you need Knowledge of English Documents you'll need to apply Apply online Your partner and children Extend your visa Switch to this visa Money you need You must have enough money to pay for your course and support yourself in the UK. How much money you need depends on your circumstances and what you’re applying for. Course fee You need enough money to pay for your course for 1 academic year (up to 9 months). The amount you need to pay will be on your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies ( CAS ). If you’ve been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months, you do not need to prove you have this money for your visa application. Money to support yourself (‘financial requirement’) You’ll need to show you have enough money to support yourself - unless you’ve been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months on the date of your application. How much money you need depends on where you will be studying. You’ll need either: £1,529 per month (for up to 9 months) for courses in London £1,171 per month (for up to 9 months) for courses outside London If you’re boarding at a residential independent school, you’ll need to pay boarding fees instead. The amount you need to pay will be on your CAS . London means the City of London and the 32 London boroughs. You’ll need to prove you have extra money for each family member you bring with you. You must have this money for at least 28 days in a row. The end date of the 28-day period must be within 31 days of the date you apply for your visa. Example If you submit your application on 1 January, you’d have to show that the funds were in your bank account for at least the 28-day period ending on 1 December. If you have a student loan or financial sponsorship, you’ll need to provide evidence of this from your loan or sponsorship company. Read the guidance on finances for student applications for more information about the money you need and how to prove it. When you do not need to prove you have money to support yourself You do not need to prove that you meet the financial requirement if either: you’ve been living in the UK with a visa for at least 12 months prior to the date of your Student visa application you’re applying as a student union sabbatical officer If you’re from a country listed under the ‘differential evidence requirement’ You do not need to prove you have enough money to support yourself if you’re a British national overseas or from one of the following countries or territories: Australia Austria Bahrain Barbados Belgium Botswana Brazil Brunei Bulgaria Cambodia Canada Chile China Croatia Republic of Cyprus Czechia Denmark The Dominican Republic Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Hungary Iceland Indonesia Ireland Italy Japan Kazakhstan Kuwait Latvia Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Malaysia Malta Mauritius Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Norway Oman Peru Poland Portugal Qatar Romania Serbia Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Korea Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Thailand Tunisia United Arab Emirates United States of America However, you might be asked to provide this evidence before you get a decision on your application. If you do need to provide it, you’ll be contacted by UK Visas and Immigration ( UKVI ) after you’ve submitted your application. Read the guidance on finances for student applications for more information about the money you need and how to prove it. Previous : Your course Next : Knowledge of English View a printable version of the whole guide This page is Part of Study in the UK on a Student visa Step 1 : Check if this visa is right for you You can apply for a Student visa if you’re 16 or over and want to study on a further or higher education course in the UK. Check what you can and cannot do on this visa Check what courses you can study on this visa Check if you can bring your partner or children ('dependants') with you If you're under 18 and you want to study at an independent school in the UK, you may be eligible for a Child Student visa instead. Check which visas you're eligible for Step 2 : Prepare the evidence you need Check what documents you can use as evidence Prove your knowledge of the English language Check if you need a tuberculosis (TB) test If you're doing a masters degree or above, you may need to apply for the Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate. Check if you need to apply for ATAS Step 3 : Apply from outside the UK Apply from outside the UK £558 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application. You'll usually get a decision within 3 weeks. Find out if you can pay more to get a faster decision or Apply from inside the UK Apply to extend if you're already in the UK on Student visa (or a Tier 4 (General) visa) £558 Apply to switch to this visa if you're already in the UK £558 You'll need to prove your identity as part of your application. You'll usually get a decision within 8 weeks. You may be able to pay more to get a faster decision you’ll be told if you can when you apply Step 4 : Get access to your eVisa If your application is successful, you'll get an eVisa. This is an online record of your immigration status. Get access to your eVisa by setting up a UKVI account. You’ll need to link your travel document to your UKVI account. This should be the travel document you use to come to the UK. You may have to prove your immigration status when you travel to the UK Step 5 : Check what you can bring into the UK with you Check what you can bring in your hand luggage Check what to do if you're bringing cash with you Check what goods you can bring with you Check what food, animals or plants you can bring into the UK Step 6 : Check what you need to show at the UK border Check what you need to show at the UK border Step 7 : After you arrive in the UK You might be able to extend your visa to stay longer in the UK. Check if you can extend your visa If you break the conditions of your visa you may not be able to come to the UK again. Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
