Skilled Worker visa: How much it costs - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Work in the UK Skilled Worker visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your job When you can be paid less If you work in healthcare or education Knowledge of English How much it costs Documents you'll need to apply Apply from outside the UK Your partner and children Extend your visa If you got your first certificate of sponsorship before 4 April 2024 Update your visa if you change job or employer Switch to this visa Taking on additional work How much it costs When you apply for a Skilled Worker visa, you’ll need to have enough money to: pay the application fee - the standard fee ranges from £819 to £1,865 depending on your circumstances pay the healthcare surcharge - this is usually £1,035 per year support yourself when you arrive in the UK - you’ll usually need to have at least £1,270 available (unless you’re exempt) You’ll pay a lower application fee if your job is on the immigration salary list. You’ll be told how much you need to pay when you apply. Example You’re applying to come to the UK from Argentina for 2 years on a Skilled Worker visa. Your job is not on the immigration salary list so your visa will cost £819, plus £1,035 for each year of your stay for the healthcare surcharge. This means you’ll pay a total of £2,889 when you apply for your visa. You’ll also need to prove you have £1,270 available to support yourself in the UK if your employer cannot cover these costs. Application fees If you’re applying from outside the UK, the standard fee depends on whether you’ll be in the UK for: up to 3 years - £819 per person more than 3 years - £1,618 per person If you’re applying from inside the UK to extend, switch or update your visa, the standard fee depends on whether you’ll be in the UK for: up to 3 years - £943 per person more than 3 years - £1,865 per person If your partner or child applies to join you in the UK, they’ll pay the fee for the same length of time as you even if they apply after your visa has been granted. Example If your 5-year certificate of sponsorship expires in 2027 and your child applies to join you in 2025, they’ll need to pay the application fee for more than 3 years. If your job is on the immigration salary list You and your family will pay a lower application fee if your job is on the immigration salary list . The fee for each person applying is: £628 if you’re staying for up to 3 years £1,235 if you’re staying for more than 3 years The fee is the same whether you’re applying from inside or outside the UK. If your partner or child applies to join you in the UK as your ‘dependant’, they’ll pay the fee for the same length of time as you. Money to support yourself You must have at least £1,270 in your bank account to show you can support yourself in the UK. You will need to have had the money available for at least 28 days in a row. Day 28 must be within 31 days of applying for this visa. You’ll usually need to show proof of this when you apply , unless either: you’ve been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months your employer can cover your costs during your first month in the UK, up to £1,270 Your partner and children will also need to prove they can support themselves while they’re in the UK. Check how much money your dependants will need to support themselves . Read the guidance on financial evidence for more information about the money you need and how to prove it. If your employer can support you instead Your certificate of sponsorship must confirm this. Your employer will need to complete the ‘sponsor certifies maintenance’ section on your certificate. This is under ‘Additional data’. Previous : Knowledge of English Next : Documents you'll need to apply View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Check if you need a UK visa Sponsorship: guidance for employers and educators How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Tax if you come to the UK Explore the topic Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
