Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application: How much you have to pay - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration What you need to do Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application Skip contents Contents Overview Who needs to pay How much you have to pay Paying the healthcare surcharge Refunds How much you have to pay The exact amount you pay depends on the length of your visa. A visa may last longer than your course of study or period of employment. Cost for a year You’ll have to pay: £776 per year for students, their dependants, and those on a Youth Mobility Scheme visa, for example £1,552 for a 2-year visa £776 per year for visa and immigration applicants who are under the age of 18 at time of application £1,035 per year for all other visa and immigration applications, for example £3,105 for a 3-year visa Cost for part of a year The amount you have to pay depends on the length of the visa you’re given and where you apply from. 6 months or less You do not need to pay the surcharge if you’re applying from outside the UK for 6 months or less. If you’re applying from inside the UK, you’ll have to pay half the yearly cost. For example: £388 for students, their dependants or under-18 applications £517.50 for any other application More than 6 months but less than one year Wherever you apply from, you’ll have to pay the cost of a full year. Cost for more than one year If your visa is for more than a year, you’ll have to pay: the yearly cost plus half the yearly cost, if it’s for 18 months or less the cost of 2 full years, if it’s for more than 18 months but less than 2 years Paying for dependants Dependants aged 18 or over usually need to pay the same amount as you. If you do not pay You’ll get an email from UK Visas and Immigration if you do not pay the surcharge (or do not pay enough). The email will explain how to pay. It will go to the email address given in your visa application. Check your junk folder if you cannot see the email in your inbox. Once you get the email, you must pay the surcharge within: 10 working days if you’re inside the UK 7 working days if you’re outside the UK Your visa or immigration application will be turned down if you do not pay the full amount in this time. Previous : Who needs to pay Next : Paying the healthcare surcharge View a printable version of the whole guide Related content How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Explore the topic Family in the UK Study in the UK What you need to do Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
