Family visas: apply, extend or switch: Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Family in the UK Family visas: apply, extend or switch Skip contents Contents Overview Apply as a partner or spouse Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse Apply as a parent Apply as a child Apply as an adult coming to be cared for by a relative Apply on the basis of your private life Information and evidence you must provide Knowledge of English After you apply Financial requirements if you’re applying as a partner or spouse If you apply for a family visa as a partner, you and your partner usually need to prove that your combined income is at least £29,000 a year. This is called a ‘minimum income requirement’. The financial requirements are different if either: your partner is getting certain disability or carer’s benefits you first applied as a partner before 11 April 2024 and you’re extending that visa - this includes if you first applied as a fiancé, fiancée or proposed civil partner How you prove your income depends on how you got it. You may be able to use your savings instead of income to show you meet the requirement. Check the information and evidence you’ll need to prove your income. If your partner is getting disability or carer’s benefits You do not need to meet a minimum income requirement if your partner gets one of the following benefits: Disability Living Allowance Scottish Adult Disability Living Allowance Severe Disablement Allowance Industrial Injuries Disablement Benefit Attendance Allowance Pension Age Disability Payment Carer’s Allowance Carer Support Payment Personal Independence Payment Armed Forces Independence Payment or Guaranteed Income Payment under the Armed Forces Compensation Scheme Constant Attendance Allowance, Mobility Supplement or War Disablement Pension under the War Pensions Scheme Police Injury Pension Child Disability Payment Adult Disability Payment You need to show you and your family have enough money to house and support yourselves without relying on additional public funds . The caseworker considers your income and housing costs. Check the guidance in Appendix FM and Appendix HM armed forces: minimum income requirement for more information. If you first applied as a partner before 11 April 2024 and you’re extending that visa If you’re extending your stay with the same partner, you and your partner will need to prove that your combined income is at least £18,600 a year. You must prove you have extra money for any children who: you’re applying for a family visa with are already in the UK as dependants on your family visa are already in the UK as your partner’s dependants You do not need to prove you have extra money for any children who: are British or Irish citizens have pre-settled status are permanently settled in the UK You might not need to prove you have extra money if your children are citizens of the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Switzerland and they do not have pre-settled status or are not permanently settled in the UK. Check the guidance in Appendix FM and Appendix HM armed forces: minimum income requirement for more information. If you need to prove extra money for children, you’ll need to prove an extra: £3,800 a year for the first child £2,400 a year for each additional child you have after the first child If the total amount you’d need to earn based on your children would be more than £29,000, you only need to prove you make £29,000 a year. If you cannot meet the financial requirements If you cannot meet these financial requirements you may still be able to apply for a visa or extend your stay if: you have a child in the UK who is a British or Irish citizen or has lived in the UK for 7 years and it would be unreasonable for them to leave the UK it would breach your human rights to stop you coming to the UK or make you leave If you do not meet the financial requirements, the earliest you’ll be able to apply to settle is after 10 years in the UK. Previous : Apply as a partner or spouse Next : Apply as a parent View a printable version of the whole guide Explore the topic Family in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
