Skilled Worker visa: Your partner and children - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Work in the UK Skilled Worker visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your job When you can be paid less If you work in healthcare or education Knowledge of English How much it costs Documents you'll need to apply Apply from outside the UK Your partner and children Extend your visa If you got your first certificate of sponsorship before 4 April 2024 Update your visa if you change job or employer Switch to this visa Taking on additional work Your partner and children Your partner and children may also be able to apply to join you or stay in the UK as your ‘dependants’. They’ll need to complete separate applications. If your partner or child’s application is successful, their visa will usually end on the same date as yours. If a child’s parents have visas with different expiry dates, the child’s visa will end on the earlier date. A dependant partner or child is any of the following: your husband, wife, civil partner or unmarried partner your child under 18 - including if they were born in the UK during your stay your child over 18 if they currently have permission (‘leave to enter’ or ‘leave to remain’) to be in the UK as your dependant They’ll need to provide evidence of their relationship to you when they apply. If you’re the first person in your family to apply, you can get a ‘family linking code’ to connect your applications together. Your family members can enter the same code when they apply. If you’re a care worker or senior care worker If your partner or children are inside the UK, they can apply to stay as your dependant if any of the following are true: you have been continually employed as a care worker or senior care worker in the UK and on a Skilled Worker visa since before 11 March 2024 they are your child and they were born in the UK they are your child and you’re the only living parent responsible for them they are your child and their other parent is also sponsored as a care worker or senior care worker If your partner or children are outside the UK, they can apply to join you as your dependant if either: you have been continually employed as a care worker or senior care worker in the UK and on a Skilled Worker visa since before 11 March 2024 they are your child and they were born in the UK If your occupation code is a ‘medium skilled’ job (not care worker or senior care worker) If your partner or children are inside the UK and your job is listed as ‘medium skilled’ , they can apply to stay as your dependant if any of the following are true: you’ve been continually employed in the UK on a Skilled Worker visa and in a ‘medium skilled’ job since before 22 July 2025 they are your child and they were born in the UK they are your child and you’re the only living parent responsible for them they are your child and their other parent is also sponsored for a job listed as ‘medium skilled’ they are your child or partner and you’re extending your visa or switching to this visa as a prison officer (code 3314) If your partner or children are outside the UK, and your job is listed as ‘medium skilled’ , they can apply to join you as your dependant if either: you’ve been continually employed in the UK on a Skilled Worker visa and in a ‘medium skilled’ job since before 22 July 2025 they are your child and they were born in the UK Your partner You must be able to prove one of the following: you’re in a civil partnership or marriage that’s recognised in the UK you’ve been living together in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply you’ve been in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply but you cannot live together, for example because you’re working or studying in different places, or it’s not accepted in your culture If you’re not living together, you’ll need to prove that you have an ongoing commitment to each other, for example by providing evidence that you: communicate regularly with each other support each other financially care for any children you have together spend time together as a couple, for example on holiday or at events Your child They must: live with you, unless they’re living away from home in full-time education - for example, at boarding school or university not be married or in a civil partnership You’ll need to provide evidence of their address, such as: a bank statement credit card bills driving licence NHS registration document an official letter from their university or college Money they need to support themselves Your partner and children must have a certain amount of money available to support themselves while they’re in the UK. You - or your partner or child - will need: £285 for your partner £315 for one child £200 for each additional child Example You - or your partner or child - would need to have £600 to bring your partner and one child with you to the UK (£285 for your partner and £315 for your child). You would also need to have £1,270 available to support yourself for your own application. You - or your partner or child - will need to have had the money available for at least 28 days in a row. Day 28 must be within 31 days of you or them applying for this visa. You’ll usually need to show proof of this when they apply , unless either: you have all been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months your employer can cover your family’s costs during your first month in the UK - this must be confirmed on your certificate of sponsorship If your partner or child is applying at a different time to you, they’ll only need to prove they have enough money to support themselves if they have been in the UK for less than 1 year. Apply from outside the UK Your partner and children must either: apply online as your partner outside the UK apply online as your child outside the UK Each family member will need to complete a separate application and pay the visa fee . They must apply before they travel to the UK. They’ll need your application number - you’ll get this when you apply. This number is called a Global Web Form (GWF) or a Unique Application Number (UAN). You’ll find it on emails and letters from the Home Office about your application. They can also enter a ‘family linking code’ if you got one when you applied. This will connect your applications. Proving their identity As part of an application, your partner and children will need to prove their identity. They’ll either: use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan their identity document - they’ll also create or sign into their UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account have their fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a visa application centre They’ll be told what they need to do when they apply. If they need an appointment: they’ll need to take their passport with them to the visa application centre (they’ll be able to collect it on the day) they may have to travel to get to their nearest centre (this could be in another country) Getting a decision Once they’ve applied online, proved their identity and provided their documents, they’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks. They may be able to pay to get a faster decision - they’ll be told if they can when they apply. If their application is successful, their decision email will tell them what they’ll get to prove their immigration status and what they need to do next. Apply from inside the UK (extend or switch their visa) If you extend or switch your visa, your partner or child’s current visa will still be valid until its original end date. Your partner or child need to apply to extend or switch their visa, either: at the same time as you at any time before their current visa expires This includes children who have turned 18 during your stay. Your partner or children cannot apply to switch to your Skilled Worker visa as your dependants if they are currently in the UK: on a visit visa on a short-term student visa on a Parent of a Child Student visa on a seasonal worker visa on a domestic worker in a private household visa on immigration bail because they were given permission to stay outside the immigration rules , for example on compassionate grounds If your partner or child is currently in the UK on a Student visa, they can only switch if they have either: completed the course they were sponsored to study studied for a PhD for at least 24 months How to apply The application form will tell you if you can include your partner and children in your application or whether they need to apply separately. If your partner or child apply separately, they’ll need to either: apply online as your partner inside the UK apply online as your child inside the UK They’ll need your application number - you’ll get this when you apply. This number is called a Global Web Form (GWF) or a Unique Application Number (UAN). You’ll find it on emails and letters from the Home Office about your application. They can also enter a ‘family linking code’ if you got one when you applied. This will connect your applications. Proving their identity As part of their application, your partner and children will need to prove their identity. They’ll either: use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan their identity document - they’ll also create or sign into their UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account have their fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK Visa and Citizenship Application Services ( UKVCAS ) service point They’ll be told what they need to do when they apply. They must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man until they get a decision. Their application will be withdrawn if they do. How long it takes to get a decision Once they’ve applied online, proved their identity and provided their documents, they’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks. They may be able to pay to get a faster decision - they’ll be told if they can when they apply. Children born in the UK If you have a child while you’re in the UK, they do not automatically become a British citizen . You must apply for your child’s dependant visa if you want to travel in and out of the UK with them. The form you fill in depends on whether your child is inside or outside the UK. Your child must either: apply online as your child inside the UK apply online as your child outside the UK You’ll need to provide a full UK birth certificate for each child, showing the names of both parents. You must apply for their dependant visa before they turn 18 if they want to stay in the UK. What your partner or child can and cannot do Your partner or child can: work, except as a sportsperson or coach study travel abroad and return to the UK apply to settle permanently in the UK (also known as ‘indefinite leave to remain’) if they’ve lived in the UK for 5 years and meet the other eligibility requirements They cannot apply for most benefits (public funds), or the State Pension. If their application is successful, they’ll get a full list of what they can and cannot do. Previous : Apply from outside the UK Next : Extend your visa View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Check if you need a UK visa Sponsorship: guidance for employers and educators How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Tax if you come to the UK Explore the topic Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
