eVisas: access and use your online immigration status: Set up a UKVI account to access your eVisa - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration What you need to do eVisas: access and use your online immigration status Skip contents Contents What an eVisa is Set up a UKVI account to access your eVisa Get an eVisa if you have settlement in the UK View your eVisa and get a share code to prove your immigration status Travel with your eVisa Update your details in your UKVI account Report an error with your eVisa Set up a UKVI account to access your eVisa You need a UK Visas and Immigration ( UKVI ) account to access your eVisa. If your partner and children are joining you in the UK as ‘dependants’ then they need their own UKVI accounts to access their eVisas. Who can use this service You can use this service to access an eVisa if you have: any visa for the UK (England, Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland) settlement in the UK (also called ‘indefinite leave to remain’) You can also use this service to get access to: a ‘digital record of exemption’, if you’re exempt from immigration control - for example, if you’re a diplomat a ‘digital certificate of entitlement’, if you have ‘right of abode’ in the UK You can choose whether to access an eVisa if: you have a physical immigration document which has no expiry date and proves you have settlement in the UK - you’ll need to make a ‘no time limit’ application you have a valid visa vignette (sticker) in your passport When you do not need an eVisa You do not need an eVisa if you: are visiting the UK with an electronic travel authorisation ( ETA ) have permission to stay in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or Gibraltar Check if you already have a UKVI account You’ll already have a UKVI account if you’ve ever: used the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to confirm your identity when applying for a visa created an account when applying for a visa - you’ll have received a UKVI account confirmation email replaced a physical immigration document with an eVisa, for example a biometric residence permit ( BRP ) or biometric residence card ( BRC ) applied to the EU Settlement Scheme If you already have a UKVI account then you should not create another one. If you’re not sure whether you already have a UKVI account, you can try to sign in to view your eVisa . Create a UKVI account To create an account, you’ll need a phone number and email address that you can use each time you sign in. You’ll also need one of the following, if you have them: a valid passport and your visa application number - this is a global web form ( GWF ) number or unique application number ( UAN ) a valid passport and your BRP number your expired BRP - you can use it for 24 months after the expiry date printed on your card or until 31 December 2026, whichever comes first After you create your account you’ll be asked to confirm your identity and link your account to your eVisa. You’ll need access to a smartphone so you can install an app to confirm your identity. You’ll be able to confirm your identity another way if you either: do not have a valid passport or an expired BRP card cannot access a smartphone or use the app Create a UKVI account You cannot access your eVisa until you’ve linked it to your UKVI account. You can link your UKVI account to your eVisa if you did not do it when you created your account. Get help You can use webchat to ask about your eVisa or UKVI account. You can also watch eVisa support videos . Help someone else You can help someone else to create their UKVI account, for example someone who cannot use the internet. You can manage the other person’s account if you’re acting on their behalf, for example if they’re your child or you have power of attorney. Use your own phone number and email address when you create the account, so you can use them to sign in. If the person becomes able to manage their own account or a child reaches 18, you should update their UKVI account details . Use their phone number and email address so that they can sign in. Previous : What an eVisa is Next : Get an eVisa if you have settlement in the UK View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Check if you need a UK visa How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Entering the UK: exemptions to controls Collection eVisa support videos UKVI support videos Explore the topic EU, EEA and Swiss citizens What you need to do Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
