Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application: Overview - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration What you need to do Pay for UK healthcare as part of your immigration application Skip contents Contents Overview Who needs to pay How much you have to pay Paying the healthcare surcharge Refunds Overview Most people need to pay the immigration health surcharge ( IHS ) as part of their online immigration application. Whether you need to pay depends on the immigration status you’re applying for. When you can start to use the NHS free of charge You can start using the NHS free of charge from the date your visa starts. You must have already paid the IHS if you need to. Find out who needs to pay the IHS . You may need to pay for NHS treatment if the Home Office has not made a decision on your visa yet. You’ll still need to pay for certain types of services, such as prescriptions, dental treatment, eye tests and assisted conception. When you access healthcare in the UK, you may need to prove your status online using a share code, if you have a digital immigration status. Next : Who needs to pay View a printable version of the whole guide Related content How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Explore the topic Family in the UK Study in the UK What you need to do Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
