Apply for a National Insurance number: Who can apply for a National Insurance number - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Part of Start a new job: step by step Apply for a National Insurance number Skip contents Contents Who can apply for a National Insurance number How to apply Who can apply for a National Insurance number You can apply for a National Insurance number if you: live in the UK have the right to work in the UK are working, looking for work or have an offer to start work You can start work before you receive your National Insurance number if you can prove you have the right to work in the UK. If you already have a National Insurance number, you do not need to apply for a new one, even if your personal details change. Your National Insurance number remains the same for life. This guide and the service are also available in Welsh (Cymraeg) . When you do not need a National Insurance number You do not need a National Insurance number to start an application for benefits or a student loan. If you need a National Insurance number to get your benefit or student loan paid, you’ll be contacted and told how to get one. You do not need a National Insurance number to apply to the EU Settlement Scheme . How to find your National Insurance number Check how to find a National Insurance number if you already have one. If you’re a UK resident aged 19 or under You’ll normally be sent a National Insurance number in the 3 months before your 16th birthday if both the following are true: you live in the UK a parent or guardian has filled in a Child Benefit claim form for you If you did not get a National Insurance number If you’re aged 16 to 19 and you did not get a National Insurance number either: check if you already have a National Insurance number - you may have one if your parent or guardian filled in a Child Benefit claim form for you apply for a National Insurance number online if your parent or guardian did not fill in a Child Benefit claim form for you If you have a biometric residence permit (BRP) or eVisa If you have a BRP or eVisa, you might have a National Insurance number already. You can find it: on the back of your BRP by logging into your UK Visas and Immigration ( UKVI ) account to view your eVisa If you do not have a National Insurance number, you must apply for one if you plan to work. You can only apply when you’re in the UK. If you’ve already applied for a National Insurance number It can take up to 4 weeks to get your National Insurance number. You can call the application helpline if: you applied more than 4 weeks ago you’ve moved house since you applied your personal details have changed since you applied If you have an application reference number, have it ready when you call. You’ll find it at the top of the confirmation email you were sent after you applied. Next : How to apply View a printable version of the whole guide This page is Part of Start a new job: step by step Step 1 : Get your National Insurance number You'll usually need your National Insurance number when you start your new job. Find your National Insurance number You are currently viewing: Apply for a National Insurance number if you do not already have one Step 2 : Accept the job offer The offer might be ‘conditional’ or ‘provisional’, which means you may need to give further details to your new employer or pass pre-employment checks. Find out about your rights when accepting a job offer Step 3 : Share your details for any employer checks Give your new employer what they need to complete any pre-employment checks. Find out what checks your employer can make Find out how to prove your right to work Find out about criminal record checks Step 4 : Review your employment contract Your new employer should give you an employment contract. Check the terms before you agree to it. Find out about employment contracts and If you're leaving a job, hand in your notice Tell your current employer that you’re going to leave and when your last day will be. This is known as handing in your notice. Find out how to hand in your notice When you hand in your notice, ask your employer when you’ll get your P45. Find out about the P45 Step 5 : Prepare your personal information for your first day To get paid, you’ll need to give your new employer: your National Insurance number your bank details proof of your identity what student loan repayment plan you’re on, if you have one details of what benefits you get, if any Step 6 : Give your P45 to your new employer Your new employer will use your P45 to work out how much tax to take from your pay. Find out about the P45 or If you do not have a P45, fill in the starter checklist Use the starter checklist to give your employer details they need to work out your pay and tax. Fill in the starter checklist Step 7 : Check your first payslip Your employer must give you a payslip on or before payday. Find out what should be on your payslip It’s your responsibility to make sure you’re paying the right amount of tax. Check if the tax on your payslip is correct If you think the tax is wrong, your tax code may be incorrect. Find out what to do if you think your tax code is wrong Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
