Skilled Worker visa: Documents you'll need to apply - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Work in the UK Skilled Worker visa Skip contents Contents Overview Your job When you can be paid less If you work in healthcare or education Knowledge of English How much it costs Documents you'll need to apply Apply from outside the UK Your partner and children Extend your visa If you got your first certificate of sponsorship before 4 April 2024 Update your visa if you change job or employer Switch to this visa Taking on additional work Documents you'll need to apply When you apply you’ll need to provide: your certificate of sponsorship reference number - your employer will give you this proof of your knowledge of English a valid passport or other document that shows your identity and nationality your job title and annual salary your job’s occupation code the name of your employer and their sponsor licence number - this will be on your certificate of sponsorship Ask your employer for a copy of your certificate of sponsorship if you do not have one. Other documents you might need Depending on your circumstances, you might be asked to provide: evidence that you have enough personal savings to support yourself in the UK , for example bank statements (unless your certificate of sponsorship shows your employer can support you) proof of your relationship with your partner or children if they’re applying with you your tuberculosis test results if you’re from a listed country a criminal record certificate - if you’re working in certain jobs a valid ATAS certificate if your employer tells you that you need one because your job involves researching a sensitive subject at PhD level or higher your UK PhD certificate, or your unique Ecctis reference number if your qualification is from outside the UK - you’ll need to apply through Ecctis If your documents are not in English or Welsh you’ll also need to provide a certified translation . Criminal record certificate You’ll need to provide a criminal record certificate if you’re applying from outside the UK and you work in: education, for example teachers, education advisers and school inspectors, childminders, teaching assistants healthcare, for example nurses, doctors, paramedics, managers, pharmacists, dentists and dental nurses, ophthalmic opticians therapy, for example psychologists, speech and language therapists, counsellors social services, for example social workers, managers, probation officers, welfare and housing officers Check how to apply for criminal records checks . If you work in healthcare, you might be able to apply for the Health and Care Worker visa instead. If you’ve lived in more than one country You might need to provide a certificate from each country you’ve lived in, depending on your age and how long you stayed in each country. If you’re under 28, you’ll need a certificate from any country you’ve stayed in for a total of 12 months or more since you turned 18. If you’re 28 or over, you’ll need a certificate from any country you’ve stayed in over the last 10 years. When you’ve got your documents ready You can apply online once your documents are ready. How you apply depends on whether you’re: outside the UK and are coming to the UK inside the UK and extending your current visa inside the UK and switching from a different visa Previous : How much it costs Next : Apply from outside the UK View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Check if you need a UK visa Sponsorship: guidance for employers and educators How to apply for a visa to come to the UK Tax if you come to the UK Explore the topic Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
