Graduate visa: Overview - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Visas and immigration Work in the UK Graduate visa Skip contents Contents Overview The course you studied How much it costs Documents you'll need to apply Apply Your partner and children Overview A Graduate visa gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least 18 months after successfully completing an eligible course in the UK. You must be in the UK when you apply. Eligibility You can apply for a Graduate visa if all of the following are true: you’re in the UK your current visa is a Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa you studied a UK bachelor’s degree, postgraduate degree or other eligible course for a minimum period of time with your Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa your education provider (such as your university or college) has told the Home Office you’ve successfully completed your course You can ask your education provider if you’re not sure whether they’ve told the Home Office you’ve successfully completed your course. Check if your course is eligible and how long you need to have studied in the UK . If you’re not eligible for a Graduate visa, you may be eligible for another type of visa to stay in the UK . How long you can stay A Graduate visa lasts for: 2 years if you apply on or before 31 December 2026 18 months if you apply on or after 1 January 2027 If you have a PhD or other doctoral qualification, it will last for 3 years. Your visa will start from the day your application is approved. If you want to stay longer in the UK You cannot extend your Graduate visa. However, you may be able to switch to a different visa, for example a Skilled Worker visa . Check you can apply for another type of visa to stay in the UK . How to apply You must apply online for a Graduate visa . Your partner and children can also apply to stay in the UK if they are eligible. When to apply You must apply before your Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa expires. You can apply after your education provider (such as your university or college) has told the Home Office that you’ve successfully completed the course you took with your Student or Tier 4 (General) student visa. You do not have to wait until you’ve graduated or have been given a certificate. As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity and provide your documents. Your application may take longer if you need an appointment to do this. You’ll find out if you need one when you start your application. Getting a decision Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 8 weeks. You can stay in the UK while you wait for a decision. How much it costs When you apply for a Graduate visa, you’ll need to: pay the £937 application fee pay the healthcare surcharge - this is usually £1,035 for each year you’ll be in the UK Check how much it will cost . If you work in public sector healthcare If you’re a doctor or nurse, or you work in health or adult social care, check if you’re eligible to apply for the Health and Care Worker visa instead. It’s cheaper to apply for and you do not need to pay the annual immigration health surcharge. If you get a job in public sector healthcare after you have paid the healthcare surcharge, you may be able to get a refund . What you can and cannot do With a Graduate visa you can: work in most jobs look for work be self-employed continue living in the UK with your partner and children , if they’re eligible travel abroad and return to the UK do voluntary work Any voluntary work you do must be unpaid and for one of the following: a registered charity a voluntary organisation an associated fundraising body (an organisation that raises money for a charity or voluntary organisation) a statutory body (a government-appointed body, for example Historic England) You cannot: apply for most benefits ( public funds ), or the State Pension work as a professional sportsperson If your application is successful, you’ll get a full list of what you can and cannot do with a Graduate visa. Studying with a Graduate visa You can only study with a Graduate visa if your chosen course is not eligible for a Student visa . If your course is eligible for a Student visa, you can extend your Student visa instead. You may need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) certificate if you’re studying or researching sensitive topics. Next : The course you studied View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Tax if you come to the UK Explore the topic Work in the UK Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
