How Council Tax works: Working out your Council Tax - GOV.UK Cookies on GOV.UK We use some essential cookies to make this website work. We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services. You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Accept additional cookies Reject additional cookies View cookies Hide cookie message Skip to main content GOV.UK Navigation menu Menu Menu Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments Departments, agencies and public bodies News News stories, speeches, letters and notices Guidance and regulation Detailed guidance, regulations and rules Research and statistics Reports, analysis and official statistics Policy papers and consultations Consultations and strategy Transparency Data, Freedom of Information releases and corporate reports Search GOV.UK &times; Search GOV.UK Search Search GOV.UK Search Home Housing and local services Council Tax How Council Tax works Skip contents Contents Working out your Council Tax Who has to pay Discounts for full-time students Discounts for disabled people Second homes and empty properties Paying your bill Working out your Council Tax You’ll need to know 3 things: the valuation band for your home in England and Wales or in Scotland how much your local council charges for that band whether you can get a discount or exemption from the full bill You may be able to get Council Tax Reduction (this used to be called Council Tax Benefit) if you’re on a low income or get benefits. You can challenge your Council Tax band if you think your home is in the wrong valuation band. Changes that may affect your Council Tax band Your property may be put in a different band in some circumstances, for example if: you demolish part of your property and do not rebuild it you alter your property to create 2 or more self-contained units, for example an annexe - each unit will have its own band you split a single property into self-contained flats you convert flats into a single property you start or stop working from home the previous owner made changes to your property there are significant changes to your local area, like a new road being built a similar property in your area has its Council Tax band changed Ask the Valuation Office ( VO ) if you want to know if changes to your property will affect your Council Tax band. Next : Who has to pay View a printable version of the whole guide Related content Pay Council Tax arrears Apply for a Council Tax discount Check your Council Tax band Appeal a Council Tax bill or fine Register to vote Explore the topic Council Tax Is this page useful? Maybe Yes this page is useful No this page is not useful Thank you for your feedback Report a problem with this page Help us improve GOV.UK Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details. This field is for robots only. Please leave blank What were you doing? What went wrong? Send Cancel Help us improve GOV.UK To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today. Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript ) . Cancel Services and information Benefits Births, death, marriages and care Business and self-employed Childcare and parenting Citizenship and living in the UK Crime, justice and the law Disabled people Driving and transport Education and learning Employing people Environment and countryside Housing and local services Money and tax Passports, travel and living abroad Visas and immigration Working, jobs and pensions Government activity Departments News Guidance and regulation Research and statistics Policy papers and consultations Transparency How government works Get involved Support links Help Privacy Cookies Accessibility statement Contact Terms and conditions Rhestr o Wasanaethau Cymraeg Government Digital Service All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0 , except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
