Work | IBZ Skip to main content This website requires JavaScript to work properly. Ga verder in het NL Continuer en FR Keep going in EN Other official information and services: www.belgium.be Immigration Office Toggle navigation Apply My file Contact About IO Documentation Figures Jobs Home Themes Third country nationals Work Work Third-country nationals who have been granted authorisation to work in Belgium for more than 90 days must also be granted authorisation to reside in Belgium for more than 90 days. Work authorisation Work authorisation in Belgium must be requested from the competent Region. For more information on the procedure to follow, the conditions to be met, the documents to submit and the processing time, visit the website of the competent Region: Flemish Region: https://www.vlaanderen.be/werken/in-vlaanderen-komen-werken Brussels-Capital Region: http://www.bruxelles.irisnet.be Walloon Region http://emploi.wallonie.be ( http://emploi.wallonie.be/home/travailleurs-etrangers/permis-de-travail.html ) German-speaking Community: http://www.dglive.be Authorisation to reside The applicant must request authorisation to reside in Belgium from the competent embassy for the location where he/she resides abroad ( national long-stay visa (more than 90 days). application). If the third-country national authorised to work already legally resides in Belgium, he/she can submit his/her application for authorisation to reside to the municipal administration of his/her place of residence. The decision is taken by the Immigration Office. A procedure that allows a foreigner to obtain a residence permit to join a family member legally residing in a country. A third-country national authorised to work and reside in Belgium for more than 90 days may be accompanied or joined by his/her spouse or partner (partnership registered under a law) and minor children, under certain conditions. The conditions and procedures for submitting a family reunification application are explained in the section dedicated to family reunification with a non-EU/EEA foreign national with limited residency . Sidebar navigation Short stay Study Family reunification Work Au pair Orientation year Professional card Researchers Seasonal workers Single Permit Trainees Volunteers Worker ICT Working Holiday Programme Long-term resident Residence permit (9bis, 9ter) Return visa Brexit Favorites &copy; DOFI 2026 - Terms of Use Processing of personal data Cookiepolicy Accessibility Statement Policy External links Facebook - Instagram - Linkedin About IBZ
