Third country nationals | IBZ Skip to main content This website requires JavaScript to work properly. Ga verder in het NL Continuer en FR Keep going in EN Other official information and services: www.belgium.be Immigration Office Toggle navigation Apply My file Contact About IO Documentation Figures Jobs Home Themes Third country nationals Third country nationals A third-country national is a person who does not have the nationality of one of the Member States of the European Union nor the nationality of one of the Switzerland, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein . Are you planning to travel to or settle in Belgium? You may need to apply for a an authorisation issued by a Member State or a decision taken by such State which is required with a view to entry for an intended stay in that Member State or in several Member States, or for transit through the territory of that Member State or several Member States. . A visa is a sticker put into your passport by an embassy or a consulate to allow you to enter and stay for a certain period in Belgium. The C visa (Schengen visa) is intended for stays of up to 90 days, while the D visa (national long-stay visa) is meant for longer stays. Some nationalities are exempt from the visa requirement for a A short stay in the Schengen Area cannot exceed 90 days within each 180-day period . . However, all nationalities are subject to a visa requirement for a A long stay in the Schengen Area is longer than 90 days . in Belgium. In certain exceptional circumstances, the application for residence can be submitted in Belgium. You will find all the helpful information on this site to help you realize your travel or settlement project in Belgium. See more Contribution fee Extension of a visa or residence permit Sidebar navigation FAQ Entry International Protection Citizens of the European Union Third country nationals Short stay Study Family reunification Work Long-term resident Residence permit (9bis, 9ter) Return visa Brexit Favorites Irregular stay Ukraine &copy; DOFI 2026 - Terms of Use Processing of personal data Cookiepolicy Accessibility Statement Policy External links Facebook - Instagram - Linkedin About IBZ
