Healthcare insurance in the Netherlands | Business.gov.nl Business.gov.nl uses cookies to improve the website. These functional and analytical cookies do not contain your personal data. Do you want to watch video content? Third parties may place tracking cookies to track your online behaviour. You can refuse these tracking cookies. How cookies are used on Business.gov.nl. Accept all cookies Refuse tracking cookies Skip to main content Go to the search page To homepage Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. To homepage Menu Home Topics Main menu Topics Coming to the Netherlands Starting a business Running your business Finance and taxes Staff Business location Products, services, and innovation International business Sustainable business Ending or transferring your business Regulations Main menu Regulations Regulations Amendments Subsidies More Videos Factsheets Glossary Contact Ondernemersplein.overheid.nl (Nederlands) Search Home Regulations Taking out compulsory healthcare insurance Published by : Netherlands Enterprise Agency, RVO 2 min read Share Copy link Share (email) Print Share (other) Nederlandse versie On this page Mandatory risk excess Healthcare benefit entitlement Employer’s contribution and contribution Zvw Self-employed professionals and Zvw Employing uninsured workers Healthcare insurance for non-residents Anyone who lives or works in the Netherlands must take out healthcare insurance under the Healthcare Insurance Act ( Zorgverzekeringswet , Zvw). This includes entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals. There are 2 types of healthcare insurance: The mandatory basic package of the healthcare insurance . This will cover the default healthcare provided for instance by a general practitioner, hospital, or pharmacy. Additional insurance. You can take out additional coverage via your health insurer, if you want this. Mandatory risk excess Healthcare insurance in the Netherlands is subject to a mandatory risk excess ( eigen risico ). This means you pay the first part of the care you receive yourself. The excess rate is set annually by the government (in Dutch). Some healthcare is exempt from the excess rate. Such as care received from a general practitioner, or obstetric and maternity care. Healthcare benefit entitlement Healthcare benefit is a contribution to the costs of your healthcare insurance. Whether you are entitled to healthcare benefit depends on your income level, among other things. You can apply for healthcare benefit ( zorgtoeslag , in Dutch) from the Netherlands Tax Administration ( Belastingdienst ). Employer’s contribution and contribution Zvw If you employ personnel, you pay the income-dependent contribution under the Healthcare Insurance Act (Zvw) to the Netherlands Tax Administration. This consists of: an employer’s contribution pursuant to the Healthcare Insurance Act (Zvw) ( werkgeversheffing Zvw ) which you may not deduct from your employee’s wage, and a contribution under the Healthcare Insurance Act (Zvw) ( bijdrage Zvw ) which you deduct from your employee’s wage and pay on behalf of your employee Self-employed professionals and Zvw If you are a self-employed professional and the Netherlands Tax Administration considers your income to be the result from other activities (in Dutch), you will have to pay a Zvw contribution. To this end they will send you an assessment after you have filed your tax return. Employing uninsured workers All employees in the Netherlands must take out Dutch healthcare insurance. If someone fails to do so, the Dutch Central Administration Office (CAK) will do this for them. If you employ someone without healthcare insurance, you must withhold the monthly insurance premium (in Dutch) from their regular wages and pay this to CAK. Healthcare insurance for non-residents The Healthcare Insurance Act also applies if you work but do not live in the Netherlands . Because you work in the Netherlands you are insured under the Long-Term Care Act ( Wet langdurige zorg , Wlz). Besides this, you may be entitled to healthcare benefit . If you live in one EU country and work in another, you can also apply for an S1 form . This article is related to: Health and safety at work Insurance How would you rate this page? (question 1 of max 3) We are sorry to hear that. How can we improve? (question 2 of 3) The information is incomplete I do not understand the information The information is incorrect I do not agree with these rules None of the above Related articles National and employee insurance schemes (social security) Social security when working in another EU country External links Health insurance (Government of the Netherlands) Coming from abroad (Zorgverzekeringslijn.nl) I have Dutch healthcare insurance (Netherlands Tax Administration) Do I qualify for healthcare benefit? (Netherlands Tax Administration, in Dutch) Questions relating to this article? Contact the Healthcare insurance information desk (Zorgverzekeringslijn) To top Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. About this website About us Contact Partners Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy and cookies Glossary Ondernemersplein (Dutch) Our main contributors: Enable dark color scheme
