Provisional residence permit (MVV) | IND Skip to main content Open menu Menu Close menu Close Main navigation Residency in the Netherlands Dutch citizenship News About us About us Our work areas Our organisation Statistics and publications Background articles Stories about our work Stories from our clients Press and information Work for Service & Contact Language: Nederlands English Close Search 1 Close 1 Login Close Inloggen submenu My IND Business Portal Solicitor Portal Municipality Portal 1 Search Breadcrumb Home Provisional residence permit (MVV) Last update: 12 March 2026 Do you want to travel to the Netherlands and stay here for more than 90 days? Then you may need a regular provisional residence permit (in Dutch: machtiging tot voorlopig verblijf or MVV). Find out what an MVV is and when you need an MVV. What is an MVV? When is an MVV needed? How does the application work? When is an MVV not needed? Staying in the Netherlands during the mvv procedure See also What is an MVV? The MVV is an entry visa. This visa is intended for persons who want to stay in the Netherlands for more than 90 days. The MVV is a visa sticker (Type D) to be placed in your passport. With the MVV you can travel to the Netherlands and pick up your residence permit. The MVV is in your name, so only you can use the MVV. The MVV is a multiple-entry visa. Is your MVV still valid and have you not yet collected your residence permit? Then the MVV allows for you to enter the Netherlands more than 1 time. When is an MVV needed? You want to stay in the Netherlands for more than 90 days and you need a regular residence permit. Then you often need an MVV as well. The obligation to have an MVV depends on your nationality. It holds for most nationalities that you will receive a residence permit only if you have an MVV. How does the application work? You apply for the MVV and the residence permit at the same time. Your sponsor in the Netherlands usually submits the application. This depends on your residence permit . Do you not have a sponsor? Then you can apply for the MVV and residence permit yourself from abroad . When is an MVV not needed? You do not need an MVV if you have the nationality of one of the following countries: Australia Canada Japan Monaco New Zealand Vatican City United Kingdom United States South Korea Switzerland An EU/EEA Member State It is possible that according to your nationality you are obliged to have an MVV, but that you do not need an MVV. For example because you are a family member of a citizen of the EU, EEA or Switzerland. See the list of all MVV exemptions . Staying in the Netherlands during the mvv procedure The IND does not recommend that you stay in the Netherlands during your application procedure. Do you have an urgent reason to be in the Netherlands during the mvv application? Report this reason to the IND before you come to the Netherlands. We will then ask you to show documents showing your reasons. See also Apply for MVV and residence permit from abroad MVV exemptions Rules and regulations ​Article 2p Aliens Act (Vreemdelingenwet 2000, only in Dutch) B1/3.3 Aliens Act Implementation Guidelines (Vreemdelingencirculaire 2000, only in Dutch) Cookies Proclaimer Privacy Sitemap Accessibility Webarchive Contact About us Press & information Vacancies Facebook Instagram LinkedIn X Language: Nederlands English
