Working with the Personal Records Database (BRP) | Business.gov.nl Business.gov.nl uses cookies to improve the website. These functional and analytical cookies do not contain your personal data. Do you want to watch video content? Third parties may place tracking cookies to track your online behaviour. You can refuse these tracking cookies. How cookies are used on Business.gov.nl. Accept all cookies Refuse tracking cookies Skip to main content Go to the search page To homepage Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. To homepage Menu Home Topics Main menu Topics Coming to the Netherlands Starting a business Running your business Finance and taxes Staff Business location Products, services, and innovation International business Sustainable business Ending or transferring your business Regulations Main menu Regulations Regulations Amendments Subsidies More Videos Factsheets Glossary Contact Ondernemersplein.overheid.nl (Nederlands) Search Home Regulations Working with the Personal Records Database (BRP) Published by : Netherlands Enterprise Agency, RVO 1 min read Share Copy link Share (email) Print Share (other) Nederlandse versie On this page Access to the BRP Online application procedure via Message Box One-time request for BRP data The Personal Records Database ( Basisregistratie personen , BRP) contains personal records on all residents, and on those who have left the country (non-residents). Persons who stay in the Netherlands for less than 4 months may be registered as non-residents, for instance because they temporarily work or study in the Netherlands. These data are not accessible to the general public. Access to the BRP Organisations with access to the BRP include pension funds, health insurance companies, and hospitals. Research institutions can also apply for access to the BRP. To be allowed access to the BRP (in Dutch), first you apply for permission to the National Office for Identity Data ( Rijksdienst voor Identiteitsgegevens , RvIG). You apply by completing the form Autorisatieaanvraagformulier BRP and sending it to info@rvig.nl . You must state the data you wish to use, on which persons, and for what tasks or purposes. Furthermore, the computer system you use must satisfy the security requirements (in Dutch). Then the minister will decide if access is granted (authorisation decision). Please note: Does your organisation need access to data in the BRP? Access to data in the BRP is only granted if it is of importance to society ánd with permission from the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Online application procedure via Message Box You can also request approval to (regularly) perform work in the Personal Records Database digitally using Message Box . You must submit your application to the National Office for Identity Data (RvIG). Message Box is a secure email system that enables you as an entrepreneur to exchange digital messages with Dutch government agencies. One-time request for BRP data Do you need data from the BRP once only? For instance, for research or for your own data? You can request the data from your municipality. Data from the BRP will not be issued for commercial purposes. This article is related to: IT companies How would you rate this page? (question 1 of max 3) We are sorry to hear that. How can we improve? (question 2 of 3) The information is incomplete I do not understand the information The information is incorrect I do not agree with these rules None of the above Related articles Protection of personal data (GDPR) Citizen service number (BSN) in the Netherlands External links The Personal Records Database (Government of the Netherlands) The Personal Records Database (RvIG, in Dutch) Identification documents (Government of the Netherlands) Questions relating to this article? Contact the National Office for Identity Data (RvIG, in Dutch) To top Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. About this website About us Contact Partners Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy and cookies Glossary Ondernemersplein (Dutch) Our main contributors: Enable dark color scheme
