Apply for MVV and residence permit from abroad | IND Skip to main content Open menu Menu Close menu Close Main navigation Residency in the Netherlands Dutch citizenship News About us About us Our work areas Our organisation Statistics and publications Background articles Stories about our work Stories from our clients Press and information Work for Service & Contact Language: Nederlands English Close Search 1 Close 1 Login Close Inloggen submenu My IND Business Portal Solicitor Portal Municipality Portal 1 Search Breadcrumb Home Apply for MVV and residence permit from abroad Last update: 11 November 2025 You want to apply for a residence permit and need a provisional residence permit (in Dutch: machtiging tot voorlopig verblijf or MVV ). You must apply for the MVV and residence permit at the same time. You apply at the Dutch embassy or consulate abroad. Find out how to submit the application and which application form you need. Make an appointment at the Dutch embassy or consulate Information about your appointment Send application to IND Pay costs of application Application form See also Make an appointment at the Dutch embassy or consulate Before you can apply for the MVV and residence permit, you must make an appointment at the Dutch embassy or consulate in your country of origin, or country of continuous residence. Your country of origin is the country of which you have the nationality. The country of continuous residence is the country where you may stay for more than 3 months. Because you have a residence permit or are waiting for a decision on a residence application. Go to netherlandsworldwide.nl for information on how to make an appointment at a Dutch embassy or consulate . If there is no Dutch embassy or consulate in your country of origin or country of continuous residence, you make an appointment at the nearest Dutch embassy or consulate. Information about your appointment Take the completed application form, your passport photo and your valid passport with you to the appointment. Sometimes you need to bring extra documents. These are listed in the application form. A staff member of the Dutch embassy or consulate will register your application and fill in the application date on the application form. The staff member will also fill in the details of the Dutch embassy or consulate. You will get the form back afterwards. You will receive a confirmation of receipt with your personal V-number. The Dutch embassy or consulate will also take your biometric data: you have to provide your signature and fingerprints. These data are needed for the residence permit. Minor children Children under 12 must go to the Dutch embassy or consulate, together with a legal representative. A legal representative is a parent with parental authority or a guardian. Send application to IND Have you completely filled in the application form? And have you collected all requested documents? Then send your own application with the documents to the IND in the Netherlands. You must do this within 3 weeks of the date that the Dutch embassy or consulate filled in on your application form. On the form you can find out where you must send the application. Pay costs of application You must pay a fee to be able to apply. You must do so within 3 weeks of the date that the Dutch embassy or consulate filled in on your application form. The application form explains how you must pay the costs. Application form Is your residence purpose not listed in one of the forms below? Then your sponsor (recognised sponsor) probably has to apply to the IND in the Netherlands. For more information, go to the web page about your residence permit . Family: (married) partner and minor child Application for admission and residence 'to stay with a family member’ (foreign national) 9511 (PDF, 376.98 KB) Family: other situations, including adopted child and foster child Application for admission and residence 'to stay with a family member (specific situations)’ (foreign national) 9512 (PDF, 397.19 KB) Self-employed person Application for admission and residence ‘to work on a self-employed basis’ (foreign national) 9531 (PDF, 315.92 KB) Start-up Application for admission and residence as a ‘start-up’ working on a self-employed basis 9541 (PDF, 329.5 KB) Working in the Netherlands Application for admission and residence for working purposes (foreign national) 9532 (PDF, 535.02 KB) Orientation year as a highly educated migrant seeking employment Application for admission and residence for an orientation year as a highly educated migrant seeking employment 9571 (PDF, 402.41 KB) Working Holiday: Argentina, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Uruguay Application for admission and residence for a Working Holiday (Argentina, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Uruguay nationals) 9561 (PDF, 254.68 KB) Re-entry in the Netherlands Application for admission and residence on grounds of re-entry (foreign national) 9521 (PDF, 310.68 KB) Medical treatment / Residence on grounds of Article 8 ECHR Application for admission and residence on temporary or non-temporary humanitarian grounds’ (foreign national) 9522 (PDF, 277.66 KB) See also Residence permits Provisional residence permit (MVV) Mvv exemptions Cookies Proclaimer Privacy Sitemap Accessibility Webarchive Contact About us Press & information Vacancies Facebook Instagram LinkedIn X Language: Nederlands English
