Employing a foreign national | IND Skip to main content Open menu Menu Close menu Close Main navigation Residency in the Netherlands Dutch citizenship News About us About us Our work areas Our organisation Statistics and publications Background articles Stories about our work Stories from our clients Press and information Work for Service & Contact Language: Nederlands English Close Search 1 Close 1 Login Close Inloggen submenu My IND Business Portal Solicitor Portal Municipality Portal 1 Search Breadcrumb Home Residence permits Work Employing a foreign national Last update: 10 June 2026 You want to employ a foreign national. Find out what you need to do and which residence permits you can choose from. Visa or residence permit for employee Residence permit for work Other residence permits for work Family members of the employee Employing foreign students Working as an asylum seeker or status holder Sponsor or recognised sponsor Obligations of a sponsor and recognised sponsor See also Visa or residence permit for employee Employees with nationality of EU/EEA member state or Switzerland Do you want to employ a foreign national with the nationality of an EU/EEA Member State or Switzerland? EU law provides for free movement of persons. This means that your employee is free to work in the Netherlands and does not need a residence permit and does not need a work permit (in Dutch: tewerkstellingsvergunning or TWV). Employees with other nationalities Does the employee not have the nationality of an EU/EEA member state or Switzerland? It depends on how long your employee will stay in the Netherlands if they need a visa or residence permit. Stay for less than 90 days Will the employee come to work in the Netherlands for a maximum of 90 days? In that case the employee may need a short stay visa . Whether a short stay visa is needed depends on the employee’s nationality. In addition, you usually need to apply for a work permit (TWV) for the employee at UWV. Frontier workers Is the employee a frontier worker ? In that case their work in the Netherlands is also seen as a short stay period. Stay for more than 90 days The employee needs a residence permit to work and stay for more than 90 days in the Netherlands. Residence permit for work Various residence permits make it possible to work in the Netherlands. Which residence permit your employee needs often depends on the type of work. Knowledge and talent residence permits Intra-corporate transferee residence permit : the employee works at a company outside the European Union (EU). The employee will be transferred to a branch in the Netherlands as a trainee, manager or specialist. Highly skilled migrant residence permit : the employee is going to perform highly skilled work. A salary requirement applies. Residence permit European Blue Card : the employee is going to perform highly skilled work within the EU. This is work for which for example a high level of education is needed. A salary requirement applies. Residence permit for researchers under Directive (EU) 2016/801 : the employee is going to work as a researcher under Directive (EU) 2016/801. The employee may receive a grant instead of a salary. Residence permit for essential start-up personnel : the employee is going to work at a start-up in the Netherlands. The employee will be given an essential role there to help in the growth of the start-up. The employee will receive a salary and a financial participation for employees. Residence permit paid employment Employees with work in paid employment need a single permit (in Dutch: gecombineerde vergunning verblijf en arbeid or GVVA). The GVVA combines the residence permit and the work permit (TWV). The GVVA is also necessary for the following work: Spiritual counsellor or officiating minister. Member of a monastic/conventual order or missionary. Employee of an international non-profit organisation. Employee in art and culture. Employee in the supply of goods to a foreign company: the employee is going to work for an employer that supplies goods to a foreign company. Employee in the supply of goods by a foreign company: the employee is going to work for an employer that assembles and repairs equipment supplied by a foreign company. Intra-company transferee: the employee works for an international group of companies and will be transferred to the Netherlands as a trainee, key personnel or specialist. The employee does not fall under the rules for intra-corporate transferees. Read more about Work in paid employment - Single Permit (GVVA) . Is the employee going to work in the Netherlands, but it is not possible to apply for a single permit (GVVA)? In that case you apply to the IND for a paid employment residence permit. You must apply to the UWV for a TWV . This applies to employees who are going to work in the following jobs or situations: As a media correspondent. As military personnel with non-privileged status, or civilian personnel. Employee under an international agreement (in Dutch: zetelovereenkomst ). Employee on a Dutch seagoing vessel or mining facility. The employee takes their leave in the Netherlands after work on a seagoing vessel or mining facility. The employee is recovering from an illness after working on a seagoing vessel or mining facility. The employee is looking for work on a seagoing vessel or mining facility. Read more about the paid employment residence permit . Is the employee going to work in the Netherlands but is a TWV not or no longer necessary? For example, because the employee has worked in the Netherlands for 5 continuous years? In that case you need to apply for a paid employment residence permit only. International Trade Regulation : the employee works at a foreign company that collaborates with a Dutch company in a project or joint venture. The employee is now going to work in the Netherlands in the context of this project or joint venture. Residence permit under the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement : a British service provider is going to work temporarily in the Netherlands under the agreements of the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement. This concerns contractual service providers and self-employed professionals (independent service provider or independent professional). Other residence permits for work Residence permit for trainees or students on work placement : the employee will do a work placement in the context of study. Or they will come to work for you to gain work experience (student in work placement). Residence permit to gain work experience via an EU programme : the employee will do work placement or gain work experience via an action programme of the European Union. Residence permit for seasonal labour : the employee will come to the Netherlands to work temporarily in the agricultural sector. Residence permit for cross-board service providers : the employee works at a company in the EU, EEA or Switzerland. The employee is going to work temporarily for this company in the Netherlands. Family members of the employee Are you a recognized sponsor? You can submit an application for family members of your employee. Will the employee travel to the Netherlands together with family members? You can submit their applications at the same time. Is the employee coming for seasonal labour, traineeship or to gain work experience? In that case the employee cannot bring their family. Employing foreign students Do you want to employ a foreign student with a residence permit for the purpose of study? A foreign student is only allowed to work if you have a work permit (in Dutch: tewerkstellingsvergunning or TWV) for the student. Apply to the UWV for a TWV . The student is allowed to work maximally 16 hours per week, or fulltime in June, July and August. The Dutch Labour Inspectorate (in Dutch: de Nederlandse Arbeidsinspectie or NLA) checks whether you have a TWV. And whether the student does not work more than is allowed. Does the student work more or without a TWV? In that case the Dutch Labour Inspectorate will report this to the IND and you will get a fine. Working as an asylum seeker or status holder Anyone with a valid asylum permit is allowed to work. Have you applied to renew your asylum residence permit or your permanent asylum residence permit? Then you are also allowed to work while you wait for a decision on that application. An application for the renewal of the temporary asylum residence permit, however, must be submitted before the end date of the current permit. You as an employer, do not need to have a TWV during these application procedures. Has anyone applied for asylum after 12 June? If that person is allowed to work after 3 months depends on the asylum procedure they are following. You can check with the UWV (only in Dutch) if someone is allowed to work during the asylum application. You can find more information about working as an asylum seeker or status holder on the website of the Netherlands Labour Authority . Sponsor or recognised sponsor By employing a foreign employee, you automatically become the sponsor for that employee. You can be a sponsor for several employees at the same time. You as an employer can also become a sponsor recognised by the IND. As a recognised sponsor you can simply and quickly apply for a residence permit for your employee. Recognition is required in order to employ highly skilled migrants and researchers under Directive (EU) 2016/801. Read more about applying for recognition as a sponsor . Obligations of a sponsor and recognised sponsor A sponsor or recognised sponsor has several obligations. Find out more about the obligations of a sponsor or recognised sponsor . The IND checks whether you meet your obligations. If you do not meet your obligations you can get an administrative fine . Or the IND can suspend or withdraw your recognition as a sponsor . Additional statutory rules Besides the obligations of the IND, additional statutory rules apply to working with foreign employees . Read more about these rules on Zelfinspectie.nl . The Dutch Labour Inspectorate (in Dutch: de Nederlandse Arbeidsinspectie or NLA) checks whether you comply with these statutory rules. You are also responsible for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Foreign Nationals Employment Act (in Dutch: Wet arbeid vreemdelingen or Wav). Not only by yourself, but also by the employees and the temporary employment agency involved. Otherwise, you can get a fine for violation of the Wav . Read more about fines for violation of the Wav . See also 00:00 00:00 Download video Download in MP4 HD format MP4 HD | 63.8 MB Transcribed text Video title is visible in animation: How do I as a recognised sponsor hire an employee from abroad. Instruction video. Voice-over: How do I, as a recognised sponsor, hire an employee from abroad? You are a recognised sponsor and you would like to hire an employee from abroad. Your employee needs a residence permit for this purpose. And usually also a special entry visa, an mvv. You can apply for the residence permit and mvv from the IND together, in 5 steps. Step 1. Read the conditions on www.ind.nl. There you will find all the residence permits for work. And the conditions, rights and obligations associated with each residence permit. Which permit your employee needs depends, among other things, on the position and salary grade. Step 2. Complete the application form. You can submit the application in writing, or online in the Business Portal. In the form, you should state that your employee meets the conditions. You do not have to send the documents showing this together with the application form. Instead, you should keep them. Step 3. Pay for the application. Find out on ind.nl how much the application costs. On the application form you can give the IND permission to debit the costs with a direct debit. Or you can wait for the letter advising how you can pay. Step 4. Wait for the decision. Have you paid for the application? Then the IND has 90 days to make a decision. This is called the decision period. Did you use direct debit? Then a decision is often taken within two weeks. It will take longer if your application is incomplete or further information is needed. In that case you will be notified and the decision period may be extended. Step 5. The decision.If your application has been rejected and you disagree, you can apply for review. If the decision is positive, you will receive a message about collecting the mvv or residence permit. Would you like to submit an application? Please visit www.ind.nl. Text in animation: Would you like to submit an application? visit www.ind.nl Cookies Proclaimer Privacy Sitemap Accessibility Webarchive Contact About us Press & information Vacancies Facebook Instagram LinkedIn X Language: Nederlands English
