Student in the Netherlands - Migration and Home Affairs Skip to main content en Select your language Close EU official languages bg български es español cs čeština da dansk de Deutsch et eesti el ελληνικά en English fr français ga Gaeilge hr hrvatski it italiano lv latviešu lt lietuvių hu magyar mt Malti nl Nederlands pl polski pt português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina fi suomi sv svenska Other languages ar العربية ru русский uk yкраїнська Search Search Live, work, travel in the EU Migration and Home Affairs Menu Back Home Migration Migration and asylum The European Commission develops and oversees common EU policy in the area of migration and asylum. This includes: the EU asylum system, legal migration, irregular migration and return, migration management in the Member States, migrant integration and statistics on migration to Europe. Asylum in the EU Determining the Member State responsible for an asylum application Reception conditions Temporary protection Statistics Who qualifies for international protection See all EU Immigration Portal Highly-qualified worker in Slovakia Highly-qualified worker in Slovenia Highly-qualified worker in Spain Highly-qualified worker in Sweden International service provider in Austria International service provider in Slovakia International service provider in Slovenia International service provider in Spain International service provider in Sweden Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Slovakia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Slovenia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Spain Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Sweden Seasonal worker in Slovakia Seasonal worker in Slovenia Seasonal worker in Spain Seasonal worker in Sweden Self-employed worker in Slovakia Self-employed worker in Slovenia Self-employed worker in Spain Self-employed worker in Sweden Student in Slovakia Student in Slovenia Student in Spain Trainee in Slovakia Trainee in Slovenia Trainee in Spain Trainee in Sweden Volunteer in Slovakia Volunteer in Slovenia Volunteer in Spain Volunteer in Sweden Employed worker in Slovakia Employed worker in Slovenia Employed worker in Sweden Employed worker in Spain Family member in Slovakia Family member in Slovenia Student in Sweden Family member in Spain Researcher in Slovakia Researcher in Slovenia Researcher in Spain Employed worker in Belgium Employed worker in Austria Employed worker in Bulgaria Employed worker in Croatia Employed worker in Cyprus Employed worker in Czechia Employed worker in Denmark Employed worker in Estonia Employed worker in Finland Employed worker in Germany Employed worker in France Employed worker in Greece Employed worker in Hungary Employed worker in Ireland Employed worker in Italy Employed worker in Latvia Employed worker in Lithuania Employed worker in Luxembourg Employed worker in Malta Employed worker in Poland Researcher in Sweden Employed worker in Portugal Employed worker in Romania Employed worker in the Netherlands Family member in Belgium Family member in Austria Family member in Bulgaria Family member in Croatia Family member in Cyprus Family member in Czechia Family member in Denmark Family member in Estonia Family member in Finland Family member in France Family member in Germany Family member in Greece Family member in Hungary Family member in Ireland Family member in Italy Family member in Latvia Family member in Lithuania Family member in Luxembourg Family member in Malta Family member in Poland Family member in Portugal Family member in Sweden Family member in Romania Family member in the Netherlands Highly-qualified worker in Belgium Highly-qualified worker in Austria Highly-qualified worker in Bulgaria Highly-qualified worker in Croatia Highly-qualified worker in Cyprus Highly-qualified worker in Czechia Highly-qualified worker in Denmark Highly-qualified worker in Estonia Highly-qualified worker in Finland Highly-qualified worker in Germany Highly-qualified worker in France Highly-qualified worker in Greece Highly-qualified worker in Hungary Highly-qualified worker in Ireland Highly-qualified worker in Italy Highly-qualified worker in Latvia Highly-qualified worker in Lithuania Highly-qualified worker in Luxembourg Highly-qualified worker in Malta Highly-qualified worker in Poland Highly-qualified worker in Portugal Highly-qualified worker in Romania Highly-qualified worker in the Netherlands International service provider in Belgium International service provider in Bulgaria International service provider in Croatia International service provider in Cyprus International service provider in Czechia International service provider in Denmark International service provider in Estonia International service provider in Finland International service provider in France International service provider in Germany International service provider in Greece International service provider in Hungary International service provider in Ireland International service provider in Italy International service provider in Latvia International service provider in Lithuania International service provider in Luxembourg International service provider in Malta International service provider in Poland International service provider in Portugal International service provider in Romania International service provider in the Netherlands Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Belgium Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Austria Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Bulgaria Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Croatia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Cyprus Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Czechia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Denmark Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Estonia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Finland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in France Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Germany Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Greece Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Hungary Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Ireland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Italy Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Latvia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Lithuania Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Luxembourg Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Malta Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Poland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Portugal Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Romania Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in the Netherlands Researcher in Belgium Researcher in Austria Researcher in Bulgaria Researcher in Croatia Researcher in Cyprus Researcher in Czechia Researcher in Denmark Researcher in Estonia Researcher in Finland Researcher in France Researcher in Germany Researcher in Hungary Researcher in Ireland Researcher in Italy Researcher in Latvia Researcher in Lithuania Researcher in Luxembourg Researcher in Malta Researcher in Poland Researcher in Portugal Researcher in Romania Researcher in the Netherlands Seasonal worker in Belgium Seasonal worker in Austria Seasonal worker in Bulgaria Seasonal worker in Croatia Seasonal worker in Cyprus Seasonal worker in Czechia Seasonal worker in Denmark Seasonal worker in Estonia Seasonal worker in Finland Seasonal worker in France Seasonal worker in Germany Seasonal worker in Greece Seasonal worker in Hungary Seasonal worker in Ireland Seasonal worker in Italy Seasonal worker in Latvia Seasonal worker in Lithuania Seasonal worker in Luxembourg Seasonal worker in Malta Seasonal worker in Poland Seasonal worker in Portugal Seasonal worker in Romania Seasonal worker in the Netherlands Self-employed worker in Estonia Self-employed worker in Finland Self-employed worker in France Self-employed worker in Germany Self-employed worker in Greece Self-employed worker in Hungary Self-employed worker in Ireland Self-employed worker in Italy Self-employed worker in Latvia Self-employed worker in Lithuania Self-employed worker in Luxembourg Self-employed worker in Malta Self-employed worker in Poland Self-employed worker in Portugal Self-employed worker in Romania Self-employed worker in the Netherlands Self-employed worker in Belgium Self-employed worker in Austria Self-employed worker in Bulgaria Self-employed worker in Croatia Self-employed worker in Cyprus Self-employed worker in Czechia Self-employed worker in Denmark Student in Belgium Student in Austria Student in Bulgaria Student in Croatia Student in Cyprus Student in Czechia Student in Denmark Student in Estonia Student in Finland Student in France Student in Germany Researcher in Greece Student in Greece Student in Hungary Student in Ireland Student in Italy Student in Latvia Student in Lithuania Student in Luxembourg Student in Malta Student in Poland Student in Portugal Student in Romania Student in the Netherlands Trainee in Belgium Trainee in Austria Trainee in Bulgaria Trainee in Croatia Trainee in Cyprus Trainee in Czechia Trainee in Denmark Trainee in Estonia Trainee in Finland Trainee in France Trainee in Germany Trainee in Greece Trainee in Hungary Trainee in Ireland Trainee in Italy Trainee in Latvia Trainee in Lithuania Trainee in Luxembourg Trainee in Malta Trainee in Poland Trainee in Portugal Trainee in Romania Trainee in the Netherlands Volunteer in Belgium Volunteer in Austria Volunteer in Bulgaria Volunteer in Croatia Volunteer in Cyprus Volunteer in Czechia Volunteer in Denmark Volunteer in Estonia Volunteer in Finland Volunteer in France Volunteer in Germany Volunteer in Greece Volunteer in Hungary Volunteer in Ireland Volunteer in Italy Volunteer in Latvia Volunteer in Lithuania Volunteer in Luxembourg Volunteer in Malta Volunteer in Poland Volunteer in Portugal Volunteer in Romania Volunteer in the Netherlands Who does what? What category do I fit into? Already in the EU? What should I avoid? EU Blue Card See all Irregular migration and return An effective, firm and fair EU return and readmission policy International Conference on a Global Alliance to Counter Migrant Smuggling Migrant smuggling The EU Return Coordinator 2025 International Conference of the Global Alliance to Counter Migrant Smuggling See all Legal migration and resettlement European Migration Forum (EMF) Legal migration fitness check Long-term residents Resettlement and humanitarian admission Study and research Family reunification with non-EU nationals Talent Partnerships Work See all Migrant integration Migrant integration hub EU integration policy EU long-term residence See all Migration management Effective system of solidarity and responsibility for managing asylum and migration in the EU Migration Management in Italy Migration Management in Spain Migration management in Cyprus Relocation: EU solidarity in practice Search and rescue Welcoming displaced people from Ukraine Migration management in Greece See all Pact on Migration and Asylum First Annual Migration Management Cycle Legislative files in a nutshell Implementing the Pact on Migration and Asylum Questions and answers on the Pact on Migration and Asylum See all Statistics on migration to Europe Discover more Schengen Schengen Schengen guarantees free movement to more than 450 million EU citizens, along with non-EU nationals living in the EU or visiting the EU as tourists, exchange students or for business purposes, anyone legally present in the EU. Border crossing Short-stay calculator See all Eurosur Effective management of external borders Interoperability Schengen Information System Access rights and data protection Alerts and data in SIS Questions and answers SIRENE cooperation Schengen Information System (SIS) success stories What is SIS and how does it work? See all Schengen area History of Schengen Schengen Governance Temporary Reintroduction of Border Control See all Smart Borders European Travel Information and Authorisation System (ETIAS) Entry/Exit System (EES) See all Travel and residence documents Visa Information System (VIS) Key documents and legislation on VIS See all Visa policy Applying for a Schengen visa Legal documents related to Schengen visas Short-stay visas issued by Schengen countries See all Discover more Internal security Internal security The European Commission plays a key role in shaping and implementing the EU’s internal security policies, ensuring that security is integrated into EU legislation and policies. Counter-terrorism and radicalisation Fight against the financing of terrorism Prevention of radicalisation Protection See all Cybercrime E-evidence International cooperation against cybercrime See all Innovation and security research Security Research Event See all Law enforcement cooperation EMPACT fighting crime together Cooperation with Europol Cooperation with CEPOL Information exchange Operational law enforcement cooperation Supporting action: funding, research and innovation Travel Information See all Lawful access to data Data retention Encryption Projects for digital investigations See all Organised crime Confiscation and asset recovery Crime prevention Drugs policy Financial investigations Money laundering Together Against Trafficking in Human Beings Trafficking in cultural goods Trafficking in firearms Counterfeiting See all Protecting children from sexual abuse Funding to support the fight against child sexual abuse Cooperation against child sexual abuse EU versus Child Sexual Abuse Legal framework to protect children What is the EU doing to protect children from sexual abuse? See all Discover more Agencies Networks Networks The DG for Migration and Home Affairs organises and supports networks where members exchange views and information on policies, such as: child sexual abuse, radicalisation, drugs, protection of critical infrastructure and migration. CERIS - Community for European Research and Innovation for Security About CERIS CERIS in pictures CERIS events CERIS news EU security market study Subscribe Thematic areas See all European Migration Forum (EMF) EU Knowledge Hub on Prevention of Radicalisation Calls for Applications Policy and Practice Joint Events Knowledge Transfer Inspiring Practices Repository Prev. Inspiring Practices Repository Thematic Panels Welcome Package Expert Database Media PCVE & Strategic Communications The Root Causes of Violent Extremism - The Basics Strategic Orientations on a coordinated EU approach to prevention of radicalisation A Way Out From Violent Extremism Establishing Common Standards ‒ Gender-specific approaches in practical P/CVE EU Security Union Strategy About the EU Knowledge Hub on Prevention of Radicalisation Spotlight on Gender Guide for Teachers and Schools News Calendar See all RAN Policy Support EC Research e-Library on Radicalisation See all European Migration Network (EMN) About the EMN EMN Asylum and Migration Glossary EMN Events EMN Member and Observer Countries EMN partners EMN publications EMNews Expert groups See all European Union Internet Forum Labour Migration Platform Law Enforcement Networks Working Group (LENWG) Network for the Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse High-Level Group (HLG) on access to data for effective law enforcement Civil Society Forum on Drugs (CSF) RAN Practitioners (archived) About RAN Civil Society Empowerment Programme (CSEP) Collection of inspiring practices Conferences and Webinars Publications RAN Media RAN News RAN Participants RAN Practitioners pages RAN Publications RAN YOUNG PLATFORM RAN in the Western Balkans Topics and Working Groups See all Discover more Funding Funding Learn about EU funds supporting projects on migration and home affairs: Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF), Internal Security Fund (ISF) and Horizon Europe funding for security research. Asylum, migration and integration funds Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (2021-2027) Asylum, Migration and Integration fund (2014-2020) European Migration Network (EMN) See all Borders and visa funds Integrated Border Management Fund – Border Management and Visa Instrument (2021-27) Internal Security Fund - Borders and visa (2014-2020) See all Internal security funds Internal Security Fund (2021-2027) Internal Security Fund - Police (2014-2020) See all EU Civil security research funds EU Projects in Action Funding contacts Funding communication material Ongoing calls Discover more What&#039;s new What&#039;s new All the latest news, events, publications and more from DG Migration & Home affairs. News Communication campaigns Celebrate 40 years of Schengen End human trafficking. Break the invisible chain See all Newsletter Events Public consultations Publications Evaluations and impact assessments Mid-term evaluation of the Europe for Citizens programme 2014-2020 Ex-post evaluation of the programme "Prevention of and fight against Crime" (ISEC) 2007-2013 Ex-post evaluation of the four instruments under the General Programme “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows” (SOLID) Ex-post evaluation of the &#039;Prevention, Preparedness and Consequence Management of Terrorism and other Security related risks Programme&#039; (&#039;CIPS&#039;) (2007-2013) See all EU law monitoring Discover more Who we are Who we are About DG Migration & Home affairs About us Job opportunities Contact us Discover more HOME … Policies Migration and asylum EU Immigration Portal Student in the Netherlands Student in the Netherlands Are you a non-EU citizen wishing to study in the Netherlands? You can find information below on the conditions to fulfil and procedures to follow, as well as the rights you can enjoy during your stay. 15 September 2025 Page contents Page contents Conditions If you wish to stay in the Netherlands to study at a university or at a university of applied sciences, you will need a provisional residence permit (mvv) and/or a residence permit . The provisional residence permit is a special visa for stays of more than three months in the Netherlands. Other conditions apply to persons with the nationality of an EU/EEA country or Switzerland and their family members. Conditions to migrate to the Netherlands to study for more than three months at a university or at a university of applied sciences In some cases, it is possible to stay in the Netherlands to attend secondary and vocational education. More on the admission to attend secondary and vocational education Do you have a valid residence permit for study issued by another Member State of the European Union and do you want to pursue part of your study programme in the Netherlands? Then you may also reside and study in the Netherlands for a maximum of 360 days within the context of intra EU-mobility. Conditions to stay in the Netherlands with a study residence permit of another EU Member State (Directive (EU) 2016/801) Procedures Where and how to apply To travel to the Netherlands, you need a provisional residence permit (mvv). The mvv is a sticker that the Dutch representation places in the passport. In some cases, you do not need an mvv. Only a recognised educational institution can submit an application on behalf of a student. The educational institution is your recognised sponsor . The educational institution applies for the mvv and the residence permit at the same time. Your educational institution uses the application form. The forms are at the bottom of this page. The educational institution sends the application to the IND. The IND collects the fees of the application from your educational institution. All costs for applications for visa or resident permits can be found at Fees: Costs of an application (ind.nl) . Documents required The educational institution has a list of documents that you need. You have to have official foreign documents legalised and translated into Dutch, English, French or German. Duration of validity of permits The residence permit for study is valid for the duration of your education plus 3 months. You can get 1 extra year for a preparatory education or a transition year, for example to learn Dutch. The residence permit is issued for a maximum period of 5 years. Further requirements Upon arrival, you must: make an online appointment to collect the residence document in person from an Immigration and Naturalisation Service desk ; register in the Municipal Personal Records Database (BRP) in the municipality where you will be living; make an appointment within three months after the permit has been granted with the Area Health Authority (GGD) to undergo a tuberculosis test if required; if you are in the Netherlands for study purposes only, it is not required and not possible to take out basic Dutch health insurance . You can remain insured with the health insurer in your home country. If you have a part-time job next to your study, you are required to have a basic health insurance with a Dutch health insurer from the first day of work. If you are going to do an internship for which you are being paid at least as much as the Dutch minimum wage, you must be insured with a basic Dutch health insurance. Expenses are regarded as income for your internship, room and board may also be seen as such. On the website of the Zorgverzekeringslijn , you can read whether you are required to have a basic health insurance with a Dutch health insurer. Appeals If the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) has rejected your application, this will be specified in an official letter (= Decision) from the IND. If you do not agree with the decision, you can register an objection to it or authorise someone in the Netherlands to do so on your behalf. The official letter explains how to start the procedure for this. In some cases, the IND is not able to reach a decision in time. The IND may be in default. You can then send a written notice of default to the IND. If after having registered an objection, the IND has stated your objections to be unfounded, it is possible for you to appeal against this decision to the Dutch court. Further information More on the admission as a student at a university or at a university of applied sciences Rights Extension of stay If you wish to extend your stay, you must apply for this. The application for an extension of your residence permit can be submitted in writing. The IND will assess whether you meet the requirements for prolonging your stay. Change of status Has something changed in your situation that influences your residence permit? Are you quitting your studies for example? Or is the student's progress insufficient? Please report this immediately to the IND. It may mean that, due to the changes in your situation, the residence permit has to be changed . Have you finished your education? You can change your residence permit to a residence permit to look for work in the Netherlands or to work as a highly skilled migrant . Are you directly changing your residence permit within 3 years to a residence permit to work as a highly skilled migrant? A lower income requirement applies. Employment On the back of your residence permit, it says 'Tewerkstellingsvergunning (TWV) vereist voor arbeid van bijkomende aard, andere arbeid in loondienst niet toegestaan'. This means that you may only work in paid employment if your employer has a TWV for you. You are then allowed to work for a maximum of 16 hours a week or full-time during the summer months (June, July and August). Next to your study, you are allowed to work in the Netherlands as a self-employed person (without a TWV). It is important that you continue to meet the requirements for your residence permit for study. If you are going to do an internship in the Netherlands, you do not need a TWV if the internship is relevant to your study. You and your educational institution must have signed an internship agreement with the company where you will do your internship. You can find more information on doing an internship in the Netherlands at Nuffic. Permanent residence If you have lawfully lived in the Netherlands for an uninterrupted period of five years and you have a valid residence permit for a non-temporary purpose of stay, you can apply for a permanent residence permit. Study, however, is a temporary purpose of stay. Family reunification As the holder of a residence permit as a student, it is possible to bring your spouse, (registered) partner or minor child(ren) to the Netherlands. Certain conditions will have to be met in order to be allowed to bring your family members. Mobility Intra EU-mobility for students If you have a permit/visa for studies in an EU country and are covered by an EU or multilateral programme or an agreement between universities, you may carry out part of your studies and work (in addition to your studies) in the Netherlands if you fulfil certain requirements. You may reside and study in the Netherlands for up to 360 days. If you are not covered by a programme or agreement, you can apply for a new permit/visa in the Netherlands. Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) Conditions You want to reside and study in the Netherlands for a maximum of 360 days within the context of intra EU-mobility . You do not need a separate Dutch residence permit if you meet the following conditions: the student has a valid residence permit for study purposes in another EU Member State, the student is coming to study through an educational programme in which it is stated that the student will be studying in several countries (mobility measures), or the student is coming on the basis of an agreement between two or more schools of higher education, the student is pursuing part of the studies in the Netherlands. The education establishment in the Netherlands is recognised as a sponsor by the IND. If you want to find out whether an education establishment is recognised as a sponsor, check the public register of recognised sponsors , the student is staying in the Netherlands for study purposes for a maximum of 360 days. The residence permit from the other EU Member State is valid for that entire period, the student has sufficient funds. Find out more about the income requirement for students , there is no reason to assume that the student wants to live in the Netherlands for a purpose other than studying, the student will not be doing any work that is prohibited under the Labour Act for Aliens (Wet arbeid vreemdelingen) , the student poses no threat to public order or national security. Family members of a student If you come to the Netherlands as a student within the context of intra EU-mobility, then your family members are not allowed to accompany you. An application for a residence permit for your family members will be rejected. Procedure Are you a student and do you want to make use of the intra EU-mobility? You have to submit a notification and supporting documents to the IND. This can be done in 2 ways: you authorise the recognised educational institute in the Netherlands to submit the notification and supporting documents for you. This is an efficient way of doing things. Most institutions have a lot of experience with submitting notifications. Has the authorised institution been recognised as a sponsor by the IND? Then the institution is allowed to use their own attestations. you submit the notification and supporting documents yourself. You are responsible for submitting the notification and supporting documents in time. Costs This procedure is free of charge. Documents required You will find all necessary supporting documents in the notification form. Registration with the municipality​ If you are coming to the Netherlands as a student and are staying for longer than 4 months, you must register in the Personal Records Database (BRP) in the municipality where you will be living. If you are staying for less than 4 months and you need a citizen service number ( Burgerservicenummer – BSN), you can register as a non-resident. You can also do this at the municipality. To register at the municipality, you will need a legalised and translated birth certificate . You must therefore take it with you when you travel to the Netherlands. Always check with your municipality beforehand which other (certified and translated) documents/certificates you need to bring with you. Take out health insurance Everyone who lives in the Netherlands must take out health insurance. You must do this within 4 months of arriving in the Netherlands. Read more about health insurance in the Netherlands . If you are younger than 30 years of age and are staying in the Netherlands solely in order to study, you will not be able to take out basic insurance with a Dutch healthcare insurer in the Netherlands. Foreign health insurance is sufficient in such cases. If you will be working in addition to your studies, you must take out basic insurance with a Dutch healthcare insurer. The same applies to voluntary work, but not if you are doing an internship for your studies. Obtain more information by visiting the Zorgverzekeringslijn website Right to work Are you staying in the Netherlands within the context of intra EU-mobility for students? Then the following employment status applies to you: 'TWV vereist voor arbeid van bijkomende aard, andere arbeid in loondienst niet toegestaan'. This means the following: Paid employment You are only allowed to work if your employer has been granted a working permit (TWV). In that case, you may: work for a maximum of 16 hours a week work full time during the summer months: June, July and August. The UWV can grant a working permit if you can prove your lawful stay within the context of EU intra-mobility or by means of the residence endorsement sticker in your passport. Self-employed work You are allowed to work in the Netherlands as a self-employed worker without a working permit. However, it is important that you continue meeting the conditions for your residence permit for study. Termination of right of residence If you no longer meet the conditions, then you or the authorised educational institute will receive a letter from the IND. In this letter, it will say that your right of residence within the context of incoming mobility has ended. You will then be ordered to leave the Netherlands immediately and return to the first Member State. If you do not obey this order or in case that your immediate departure is deemed necessary, the IND can impose a return decision . Links Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) New in the Netherlands Diplomatic missions abroad Netherlands organisation for international cooperation in higher education Share this page Migration and Home Affairs This site is managed by: Directorate-General for Migration and Home Affairs Contact us Contact our DG More information on: Live, work, travel in the EU Follow the European Commission Mastodon LinkedIn Bluesky Facebook Youtube Other Contact us Report an IT vulnerability Languages on our websites Cookies Privacy policy Legal notice Accessibility
