Compulsory standard health insurance | Government.nl Go to content To the homepage of Government.nl Government of the Netherlands Home Themes Family, health and care Health insurance Standard health insurance Enter what you are looking for Compulsory standard health insurance Every person who lives or works in the Netherlands is legally obliged to take out standard health insurance to cover the cost of, for example, consulting a general practitioner, hospital treatment and prescription medication. Additional health insurance is not compulsory. Applying for an exemption from compulsory healthcare insurance Dispensation for people with conscientious objections to health insurance Every person who lives or works in the Netherlands is insured under the Healthcare Insurance Act (ZVW) and the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz). If you have conscientious objections to health insurance you can apply to the Social Insurance Bank (SVB) for an exemption. You will then no longer be insured under the ZVW and the Wlz. To keep your dispensation you may not have any other insurance. If you take out insurance, your dispensation will be withdrawn. Tax in lieu of insurance premium If you have a dispensation from health insurance because of conscientious objections, you will pay income or salaries tax in lieu of insurance premiums. Your employer, pension administrator or benefits agency will withhold the tax from your salary, pension or benefit and remit it to the Tax and Customs Administration. The amount is equal to the income-related contribution paid by people with health insurance. If you have balance remaining at the end of the year, part of the tax that you paid in lieu will be transferred to next year. The remaining part (up to half of your contribution) will be deposited into the Health Insurance Fund, which pays for the premiums for minors, among other things. Savings account for medical costs The Tax and Customs Administration passes on the tax paid in lieu of premiums to the National Healthcare Institute. It reserves the tax on your behalf and pays for any medical care you receive from the balance. If the balance is insufficient, you pay the rest. Was the information on this page useful for you? Yes No More on this topic Coming from abroad zorgverzekeringslijn.nl Related to Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport Ministry Service Contact Documents RSS Sitemap Help Archive About this site Copyright Privacy Cookies Use of AI Accessibility Report vulnerability This website in other languages: Nederlands English Papiamento Papiamentu
