Citizen service number (BSN) in the Netherlands | Business.gov.nl Business.gov.nl uses cookies to improve the website. These functional and analytical cookies do not contain your personal data. Do you want to watch video content? Third parties may place tracking cookies to track your online behaviour. You can refuse these tracking cookies. How cookies are used on Business.gov.nl. Accept all cookies Refuse tracking cookies Skip to main content Go to the search page To homepage Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. To homepage Menu Home Topics Main menu Topics Coming to the Netherlands Starting a business Running your business Finance and taxes Staff Business location Products, services, and innovation International business Sustainable business Ending or transferring your business Regulations Main menu Regulations Regulations Amendments Subsidies More Videos Factsheets Glossary Contact Ondernemersplein.overheid.nl (Nederlands) Search Home Regulations Citizen service number (BSN) in the Netherlands Published by : Netherlands Enterprise Agency, RVO 1 min read Share Copy link Share (email) Print Share (other) Nederlandse versie On this page Citizen service number of your employees Citizen service number for healthcare, childcare, and rented homes Citizen service number in education In the Netherlands, anyone who registers as a resident in the Personal Records Database ( Basisregistratie personen , BRP) automatically receives a citizen service number ( burgerservicenummer , BSN). This is a unique personal number, which you use to identify yourself to government agencies. As a non-governmental organisation, you may only ask for and record someone’s BSN in your administration if you: are a recognized healthcare provider, to identify a care recipient are an educational institution need it for your payroll accounts Citizen service number of your employees If you hire a new employee, you must record their BSN in your payroll accounts. If you are a subcontractor or intermediary, you should communicate your employee’s BSN to the main contractor or client. Do you hire a foreign employee without a BSN? Depending on their length of stay, the employee must: register with the Non-residents Records Database ( Registratie Niet Ingezetenen , RNI) if they stay for at most 4 months. They will then receive a BSN. register in the Personal Records Database (BRP) with their municipality to receive a BSN if they stay for more than 4 months. They may have to apply for a residence permit and/or a work permit as well. You cannot apply for a BSN for your employee. They must register with the municipality they (will) live in themselves to receive their BSN. Citizen service number for healthcare, childcare, and rented homes Childcare organisations need to ask parents for their BSN and that of their child for the childcare allowance. Health insurance companies and landlords also need this information for healthcare and rent allowance purposes. Healthcare providers, assessment bodies, and health insurance companies use the BSN to exchange medical records of their patients. Citizen service number in education Schools in the Netherlands must use a personal identification number ( persoonsgebonden number , PGN) for their school records. This personal identification number or education number is the same as the BSN. If a student in your school does not have a BSN you can contact DUO for a temporary education number (in Dutch). This article is related to: Coming to the Netherlands Staff identification How would you rate this page? (question 1 of max 3) We are sorry to hear that. How can we improve? (question 2 of 3) The information is incomplete I do not understand the information The information is incorrect I do not agree with these rules None of the above Related articles Residence permit Income tax (IB) and healthcare insurance premium (ZVW) Payroll tax and employer registration Employing foreign personnel Protection of personal data (GDPR) Keeping and sharing medical records Checklist for employing staff Checklist for posting employees to the Netherlands External links Citizen service number (BSN) (Government of the Netherlands) Citizen Service number – what is it and where do I find it? (Dutch Tax and Customs Administration) Registration when staying in the Netherlands for a short period - brochure in 6 languages (Government of the Netherlands) Personal Records Database (BRP) (Government of the Netherlands) Citizen Service Number in healthcare (Government of the Netherlands, in Dutch) Citizen service number in healthcare (Government of the Netherlands, in Dutch) Questions relating to this article? Contact the Dutch Government To top Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. About this website About us Contact Partners Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy and cookies Glossary Ondernemersplein (Dutch) Our main contributors: Enable dark color scheme
