Personal Records Database (BRP) | Government.nl Go to content To the homepage of Government.nl Government of the Netherlands Home Themes Government and democracy Personal data Enter what you are looking for Personal Records Database (BRP) The Personal Records Database (BRP) contains the personal data of people who live in the Netherlands (residents) and of people who live abroad (non-residents). People who live in the Netherlands for less than 4 months – to work or study here, for example – can also be registered with the BRP. Find out which organisations receive your personal data from the BRP Download information about the BRP in 15 languages at the Rijksdienst voor Identiteitsgegevens – RvIG website Personal data in the BRP Municipalities record the personal data of all residents in the BRP. These data include marriage, the birth of a child, or a change of address. If someone moves to another municipality, their personal data moves with them. Non-residents Records Database (RNI) When someone moves abroad, their personal data is transferred to the non-residents section of the Personal Records Database. This is known as the Non-residents Records Database (RNI). People who are in the Netherlands for less than 4 months – for example, for work or study – can also register as non-residents with the RNI . They will need a citizen service number (BSN), which they get when they register. Data Protection Rules on using or viewing data stored in the BRP are set out in the Personal Records Database Act. Protecting privacy and security are important features of this Act. The Personal Data Protection Act also protects your personal data in general. The Data Protection Authority makes sure that the Personal Records Database Act is properly observed. Accessing personal data Only organisations with a public or social function can access data held in the BRP. The Personal Records Database Act sets the rules for access. Organisations can only view data they need to do their work. Access to the BRP Access to the BRP is protected. To prevent abuse of the data, a record is kept of anyone who sees or changes it. Retention period for personal data Personal data in the BRP is stored permanently. When an organisation accesses personal data from the BRP, a record is kept of this for 20 years. Previously the Municipal Personal Records Database (GBA) The BRP replaced the Municipal Personal Records Database (GBA). One difference between the two is that the BRP also keeps data for non-residents (people who do not live in the Netherlands). The BRP was established by the Personal Records Database Act, which took effect on 6 January 2014. Was the information on this page useful for you? Yes No More on this topic rvig.nl - brochure Basisregistratie Personen in 15 talen rvig.nl Related to Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations Ministry Service Contact Documents RSS Sitemap Help Archive About this site Copyright Privacy Cookies Use of AI Accessibility Report vulnerability This website in other languages: Nederlands English Papiamento Papiamentu
