Moving from abroad (immigration) | City of Amsterdam Directly to the content City of Amsterdam | Ga naar de homepage Dutch site Search Menu Menu Dutch site Business City Hall and organisation Civil Affairs and municipal services Contact information Districts and neighbourhoods Education Elections Family, parenting and youth Housing Health, care and support Leisure Parking Policy Refugees Sports Subsidies Taxes Traffic and transport Waste and recycling Work and income Pad tot huidige pagina Home Civil Affairs Moving from abroad (immigration) If you move to Amsterdam from abroad for more than 4 months, you must register with the City. Visit a City Office within 5 days of your arrival. You can only register yourself. If your family is moving with you, all family members must come with you to the City Office. Who can register You live in Amsterdam. Certificates and translation Bring the original certificates. They must be in Dutch, English, French or German. If not, you must have them translated by a sworn interpreter or translator. You may need to have your certificates legalised. See netherlandsworldwide.nl for information about legalisation. Citizen service number (BSN) After registering, you will receive a Dutch citizen service number (BSN). You need a BSN to work, open a bank account, take out healthcare insurance or apply for benefits. Documents to bring First time in the Netherlands What you need to bring A valid passport or ID card in case of nationality from the EU, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland or Iceland. All other nationalities: a valid passport and residence permit. Are you a refugee: then you need to bring IND reports (first hearing and further hearing). If you do not have a valid passport: then an IND document stating that you are allowed to be in the Netherlands. If you own your home: original proof of purchase ('koopcontract'). If you rent your home: a copy of the valid rental contract (‘huurcontract’), or an original consent form (PDF, 2,3 MB) signed by the longest registered resident at the address, including a copy of their proof of identity. Proof of de-registration if you are moving from another part of the Koninkrijk der Nederlanden (Kingdom of the Netherlands): Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, Bonaire, Saba or Sint Eustatius. Birth certificate and any other certificates you have, such as marriage certificate, divorce certificate, adoption certificate, family book (Daftar or Livret d'Etat Civil). You have lived in the Netherlands before What you need to bring A valid passport or ID card in case of nationality from the EU, Liechtenstein, Norway, Switzerland or Iceland. All other nationalities: a valid passport and residence permit. Are you a refugee: then you need to bring IND reports (first hearing and further hearing). If you do not have a valid passport: then an IND document stating that you are allowed to be in the Netherlands. If you own your home: original proof of purchase ('koopcontract'). If you rent your home: a copy of the valid rental contract (‘huurcontract’), or an original consent form (PDF, 2,3 MB) signed by the longest registered resident at the address, including a copy of their proof of identity. Proof of de-registration if you are moving from another part of the Koninkrijk der Nederlanden (Kingdom of the Netherlands): Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, Bonaire, Saba or Sint Eustatius. Bring the certificates of the changes in your situation since your departure. For example, the birth certificate of a child born while you were abroad. Any other certificates such as marriage certificate, divorce certificate, adoption certificate, family book (Daftar or Livret d'Etat Civil). Short stay in the Netherlands If you are staying in the Netherlands for less than 4 months, you must register in the Registry for Non-Residents (RNI). See Registering in the RNI for more information. Students What you need to bring Valid proof of identity. A passport or, if you are a citizen of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, an identity card. A driving licence is not accepted as proof of identity. Proof of your Amsterdam address. For example a copy of a valid rental contract or an original consent form (PDF, 2,3 MB) signed by the longest registered resident at the address, including a copy of their proof of identity. Proof that you are a student of a Dutch school or university: a student card ('studentenkaart'), or proof of registration ('bewijs van inschrijving'). Registration You must visit a City Office in person. You do not need an appointment. In Weesp, you must make an appointment. Opening hours for registration Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday: 09:00–16:00 Thursday: 09:00–18:00 Addresses of City Offices City of Amsterdam Contact Call 14 020 Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 18:00. (From abroad: +31 20 624 1111 ) Others ways to contact us Stay informed Mastodon Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Job vacancies Visitors and internationals Information and services for visitors and internationals in the Amsterdam Area iamsterdam.com IN Amsterdam Lijst About this website Privacy Cookies Web archive
