Work permit in the Netherlands | Business.gov.nl Business.gov.nl uses cookies to improve the website. These functional and analytical cookies do not contain your personal data. Do you want to watch video content? Third parties may place tracking cookies to track your online behaviour. You can refuse these tracking cookies. How cookies are used on Business.gov.nl. Accept all cookies Refuse tracking cookies Skip to main content Go to the search page To homepage Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. To homepage Menu Home Topics Main menu Topics Coming to the Netherlands Starting a business Running your business Finance and taxes Staff Business location Products, services, and innovation International business Sustainable business Ending or transferring your business Regulations Main menu Regulations Regulations Amendments Subsidies More Videos Factsheets Glossary Contact Ondernemersplein.overheid.nl (Nederlands) Search Home Regulations Work permit (TWV) Published by : Netherlands Enterprise Agency, RVO 4 min read Share Copy link Share (email) Print Share (other) Nederlandse versie Please note: there is an amendment On this page Employees from the EEA and Switzerland Employees from outside the EEA and Switzerland Work permit (TWV) for asylum applicant No TWV required Change in permit Are you planning to hire an employee from abroad? Whether they need a work permit depends on the country they are from. outside the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland? You will need a work permit ( tewerkstellingsvergunning , TWV) or a combined residence and work permit ( gecombineerde vergunning voor verblijf en arbeid , GVVA). Employees from the EEA and Switzerland Employees that are nationals from a European Economic Area (EEA) country and Swiss nationals do not need a work permit to work in the Netherlands They do need a valid passport or identity document . Employees from outside the EEA and Switzerland Foreign workers from outside the EU, the EEA and Switzerland, generally they need a work permit. There are 2 types of work permit: work permit, or TWV ( tewerkstellingsvergunning ) combined work and residence permit, GVVA ( gecombineerde vergunning voor verblijf en arbeid ) It depends on the duration of the employment and the type of employment which permit the employee needs. Applying for a work permit (TWV) You need to apply for a work permit for the Netherlands to the Employee Insurance Agency (UWV) in the following situations. the foreign employee is already in the Netherlands and has a residence permit the foreign employee will come to work in the Netherlands for no more than 90 days the foreign employee will come to work in the Netherlands for more than 90 days but will not be living here. To get a work permit for a for a foreign employee, employers must meet a number of criteria (in Dutch). The employee must have a residence permit or a visa. You must comply with Dutch working conditions and labour legislation. And you must provide UWV with information on the type of accommodation in which the employee will stay. The accommodation must be safe and clean. Do you want someone else, for example an intermediairy or an agency, to apply for a TWV? Then you need to apply for chain authorisation for eHerkenning (in Dutch). Applying for a combined residence and work permit (GVVA, or single permit) Will the foreign employee work for you for more than 90 days and will they be living in the Netherlands? Then you generally need several documents: a combined residence and work permit (GVVA), the so-called single permit . The GVVA is a residence permit with an additional document stating for which employer they are permitted to work and under which conditions. They therefore do not need a separate work permit. You can apply for the single permit or the worker can apply for the single permit to the Immigration and Naturalisation Service ( Immigratie- en Naturalisatiedienst , IND). a provisional residence permit (MVV). This is a special type of visa with which the employee can enter the Netherlands. Not all nationalities need an MVV . If your employee already has a residence permit from a Schengen country , you do not have to apply for an MVV. As a sponsor you can apply for an MVV to the IND. To find out whether your employee needs a permit, you can check with the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND). Work permit (TWV) for asylum applicant An asylum seeker (refugee) without a residence document may work for you in the Netherlands. This also applies to self-employed persons; in that case you are the client. You apply for a work permit (TWV) to UWV (in Dutch). In addition to the general conditions for a TWV, the following conditions apply to a TWV for an asylum seeker: The asylum application has been under consideration by the IND for at least 6 months. The Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (Centraal Orgaan opvang asielzoekers, COA) provides accommodation for the asylum applicant. The asylum applicant has a valid Foreign Nationals Identity Document Type W . You pay a standard wage, in line with market rates, for the work the asylum applicant will be doing. UWV will check whether you pay enough wages. You will get a TWV for the period the Foreign Nationals Identity Document Type W is valid. No TWV required You do not need a work permit in the Netherlands for certain groups of workers (in Dutch), although other conditions do apply. You do not need a work permit for, among others: highly skilled migrants transferred employees of an international company self-employed professionals you hire asylum seekers with a residence document (status holders) Employees from Ukraine Refugees from Ukraine can work in the Netherlands without a work permit. For example if they are covered by the Temporary Protection Directive . As the employer you must notify UWV in advance (in Dutch). Refugees from Ukraine must have a sticker or O-document as proof of residency in the Netherlands from IND to be eligible for this work permit exemption. This exemption does not apply to persons with a temporary residence permit for Ukraine (third-country nationals). Whether they will be allowed to work here depends on their residency status. Change in permit If there is a change in the situation or the purpose of the stay in the Netherlands of your employee, they may need to apply for a different permit. They are only entitled to a specific work and/or residence permit if they fulfil the requirements for that permit. If the situation changes, please contact the Immigration and Naturalisation Service to apply for a different permit . Amendments The information on this page can change due to: Employment agencies must help migrant workers with BRP registration Effective date: not yet known Rules for highly skilled migrants to change Effective date: not yet known Employers may employ asylum seekers after 3 months Effective date: not yet known Changes to access to work for asylum seekers Effective date: 10 June 2026 This article is related to: Foreign staff How would you rate this page? (question 1 of max 3) We are sorry to hear that. How can we improve? (question 2 of 3) The information is incomplete I do not understand the information The information is incorrect I do not agree with these rules None of the above Related articles Permits for foreign self-employed professionals or freelancers Employing foreign personnel Employing highly skilled migrants Residence permit Accommodation for migrant workers How to apply for a work permit Permits for your foreign employees Checklist for posting employees to the Netherlands Startup visa External links Work permits (Employee Insurance Agency, UWV) Working in the Netherlands, residence permits to work (Immigration and Naturalisation Service, IND) Foreign citizens working in the Netherlands (Dutch government) Rules for employing foreign nationals (Netherlands Labour Authority, NLA) Questions relating to this article? Contact UWV&#x27;s Work Permit Bureau, or call +31 (0)88 - 898 20 70 Contact the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) To top Logo Business.gov.nl, government information for entrepreneurs. About this website About us Contact Partners Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy and cookies Glossary Ondernemersplein (Dutch) Our main contributors: Enable dark color scheme
