MVV exemptions | IND Skip to main content Open menu Menu Close menu Close Main navigation Residency in the Netherlands Dutch citizenship News About us About us Our work areas Our organisation Statistics and publications Background articles Stories about our work Stories from our clients Press and information Work for Service & Contact Language: Nederlands English Close Search 1 Close 1 Login Close Inloggen submenu My IND Business Portal Solicitor Portal Municipality Portal 1 Search Breadcrumb Home MVV exemptions Last update: 13 May 2026 Sometimes you do not need a provisional residence permit (in Dutch: machtiging tot voorlopig verblijf or MVV). Find out when you do not need an MVV. Your nationality is decisive Your nationality determines whether you need an MVV. You do not need an MVV if you have the nationality of one of these countries. Australia Canada Japan Monaco New Zealand Vatican City United Kingdom United States South Korea Switzerland An EU/EEA Member State Situations in which no MVV is needed The IND assesses whether you will be exempted. You can get an exemption in these situations. Most common situations You have a valid residence permit in the Netherlands. You had a valid residence permit in the Netherlands. You are applying for a new residence permit. You must do this within 2 years after your previous residence permit expired. You have always lived in the Netherlands during those 2 years. You were born in the Netherlands and live with your parents. At the time you apply for a residence permit, you are 12 years old or younger. Your parents live in the Netherlands with a valid residence permit. You are going to live with a family member in the Netherlands. Your family member has the nationality of Switzerland or an EU/EEA country (except the Netherlands). You yourself have a different nationality. You can apply for verification against EU law . Are you going to live with a Dutch national? Find out when Dutch nationals can derive rights from EU law . You have a valid regular residence permit of a different Schengen country . This is not an asylum residence permit. You have a recognised sponsor in the Netherlands and you meet all requirements. Will your recognised sponsor also apply for residence permits for your family members? And do your family members in that other Schengen country already have a residence permit to stay with you? In that case your family members do not need to apply for an MVV. You have a residence permit as a long-term EU resident that was issued by a different EU country. Your marriage partner or other partner and minor child also do not need to apply for an MVV. But you must have lived together with them in the other EU country. Other situations You have had a valid European Blue Card in another participating EU/EEA country for at least 12 months. You are applying in the Netherlands for a residence permit European Blue Card . In that case your family members also do not need to apply for an MVV. You are a family member of an (ex-)privileged person in the Netherlands, who themselves are eligible for a permanent residence permit . You have worked for 7 years or more on a Dutch seagoing vessel or a mining installation on the continental shelf. You are applying for a residence permit for a cross-border service provider . You live in the Netherlands with a residence permit. You have applied to become a Dutch citizen. You have temporary protection and you can apply for a residence permit for one of these residence purposes: seasonal labour; work in paid employment; work as a highly skilled migrant; work as a self-employed person. In another EU country you have a residence permit as a researcher under Directive (EU) 2016/801 . You will come to the Nederlands as a long-term mobility researcher. Your marriage partner or other partner and minor child also do not need to apply for an MVV. You are in the Netherlands for medical treatment. For health reasons you are unable to travel to your country of origin. You are under 18, go to school and you have lived in the Netherlands for at least 3 continuous years. You have applied for a residence permit for family reunification . You cannot leave the Netherlands because this would breach Article 8 ECHR. You are the marriage partner, or other partner, or child of someone who has a residence permit for medical treatment . Or you are the parent of a minor child who has this residence permit. You entered the Netherlands together with the person with this permit and live together with them in the Netherlands. Did a minor brother or sister of the person with the permit also travelled with them? And are they also under your authority? That means this person also does not have to apply for an MVV. You are under 18 and you entered the Netherlands with a valid Dutch passport. After the decision that your passport was issued in error, you have still applied for a residence permit for residence as an adopted child . You are the minor child of someone who has a residence permit on temporary humanitarian grounds, with the residence purpose victim of human trafficking, honour-related violence or domestic violence. You live together with this parent in the Netherlands. Without a residence permit, you have become the victim of human trafficking. You cannot or do not want to report this to the police here for serious reasons. Or because of this, you cannot or do not want to cooperate in the criminal investigation and prosecution of the human trafficker. You are the family member of a minor child that has been placed under supervision by the juvenile judge. This minor child has a residence permit on the basis of temporary or non-temporary humanitarian grounds. Without a residence permit, you have become the victim of domestic or honour-related violence. Or you are at risk of becoming a victim of such violence. You have become the victim of labour exploitation. Do you have children under 18? They also do not have to apply for an MVV. You are applying for a residence permit as a start-up and you meet all the requirements for that residence permit. You are staying in the Netherlands with a short-stay visa or you do not need a visa. You work with a residence permit as an intra-corporate transferee at a company within the EU. You will be transferred to a branch in the Netherlands for a period of more than 90 days. Your marriage partner or other partner and minor child also do not need to apply for an MVV. Special and individual circumstances prevent you from returning to your country of origin in order to apply for an MVV. In your application in the Netherlands, you demonstrate your request for exemption. See also Provisional residence permit (MVV) Apply for MVV and residence permit from abroad Cookies Proclaimer Privacy Sitemap Accessibility Webarchive Contact About us Press & information Vacancies Facebook Instagram LinkedIn X Language: Nederlands English
