Employed worker in the Netherlands - Migration and Home Affairs Skip to main content en Select your language Close EU official languages bg български es español cs čeština da dansk de Deutsch et eesti el ελληνικά en English fr français ga Gaeilge hr hrvatski it italiano lv latviešu lt lietuvių hu magyar mt Malti nl Nederlands pl polski pt português ro română sk slovenčina sl slovenščina fi suomi sv svenska Other languages ar العربية ru русский uk yкраїнська Search Search Live, work, travel in the EU Migration and Home Affairs Menu Back Home Migration Migration and asylum The European Commission develops and oversees common EU policy in the area of migration and asylum. This includes: the EU asylum system, legal migration, irregular migration and return, migration management in the Member States, migrant integration and statistics on migration to Europe. Asylum in the EU Determining the Member State responsible for an asylum application Reception conditions Temporary protection Statistics Who qualifies for international protection See all EU Immigration Portal Highly-qualified worker in Slovakia Highly-qualified worker in Slovenia Highly-qualified worker in Spain Highly-qualified worker in Sweden International service provider in Austria International service provider in Slovakia International service provider in Slovenia International service provider in Spain International service provider in Sweden Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Slovakia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Slovenia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Spain Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Sweden Seasonal worker in Slovakia Seasonal worker in Slovenia Seasonal worker in Spain Seasonal worker in Sweden Self-employed worker in Slovakia Self-employed worker in Slovenia Self-employed worker in Spain Self-employed worker in Sweden Student in Slovakia Student in Slovenia Student in Spain Trainee in Slovakia Trainee in Slovenia Trainee in Spain Trainee in Sweden Volunteer in Slovakia Volunteer in Slovenia Volunteer in Spain Volunteer in Sweden Employed worker in Slovakia Employed worker in Slovenia Employed worker in Sweden Employed worker in Spain Family member in Slovakia Family member in Slovenia Student in Sweden Family member in Spain Researcher in Slovakia Researcher in Slovenia Researcher in Spain Employed worker in Belgium Employed worker in Austria Employed worker in Bulgaria Employed worker in Croatia Employed worker in Cyprus Employed worker in Czechia Employed worker in Denmark Employed worker in Estonia Employed worker in Finland Employed worker in Germany Employed worker in France Employed worker in Greece Employed worker in Hungary Employed worker in Ireland Employed worker in Italy Employed worker in Latvia Employed worker in Lithuania Employed worker in Luxembourg Employed worker in Malta Employed worker in Poland Researcher in Sweden Employed worker in Portugal Employed worker in Romania Employed worker in the Netherlands Family member in Belgium Family member in Austria Family member in Bulgaria Family member in Croatia Family member in Cyprus Family member in Czechia Family member in Denmark Family member in Estonia Family member in Finland Family member in France Family member in Germany Family member in Greece Family member in Hungary Family member in Ireland Family member in Italy Family member in Latvia Family member in Lithuania Family member in Luxembourg Family member in Malta Family member in Poland Family member in Portugal Family member in Sweden Family member in Romania Family member in the Netherlands Highly-qualified worker in Belgium Highly-qualified worker in Austria Highly-qualified worker in Bulgaria Highly-qualified worker in Croatia Highly-qualified worker in Cyprus Highly-qualified worker in Czechia Highly-qualified worker in Denmark Highly-qualified worker in Estonia Highly-qualified worker in Finland Highly-qualified worker in Germany Highly-qualified worker in France Highly-qualified worker in Greece Highly-qualified worker in Hungary Highly-qualified worker in Ireland Highly-qualified worker in Italy Highly-qualified worker in Latvia Highly-qualified worker in Lithuania Highly-qualified worker in Luxembourg Highly-qualified worker in Malta Highly-qualified worker in Poland Highly-qualified worker in Portugal Highly-qualified worker in Romania Highly-qualified worker in the Netherlands International service provider in Belgium International service provider in Bulgaria International service provider in Croatia International service provider in Cyprus International service provider in Czechia International service provider in Denmark International service provider in Estonia International service provider in Finland International service provider in France International service provider in Germany International service provider in Greece International service provider in Hungary International service provider in Ireland International service provider in Italy International service provider in Latvia International service provider in Lithuania International service provider in Luxembourg International service provider in Malta International service provider in Poland International service provider in Portugal International service provider in Romania International service provider in the Netherlands Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Belgium Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Austria Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Bulgaria Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Croatia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Cyprus Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Czechia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Denmark Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Estonia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Finland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in France Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Germany Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Greece Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Hungary Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Ireland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Italy Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Latvia Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Lithuania Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Luxembourg Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Malta Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Poland Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Portugal Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in Romania Intra-corporate transferee (ICT) in the Netherlands Researcher in Belgium Researcher in Austria Researcher in Bulgaria Researcher in Croatia Researcher in Cyprus Researcher in Czechia Researcher in Denmark Researcher in Estonia Researcher in Finland Researcher in France Researcher in Germany Researcher in Hungary Researcher in Ireland Researcher in Italy Researcher in Latvia Researcher in Lithuania Researcher in Luxembourg Researcher in Malta Researcher in Poland Researcher in Portugal Researcher in Romania Researcher in the Netherlands Seasonal worker in Belgium Seasonal worker in Austria Seasonal worker in Bulgaria Seasonal worker in Croatia Seasonal worker in Cyprus Seasonal worker in Czechia Seasonal worker in Denmark Seasonal worker in Estonia Seasonal worker in Finland Seasonal worker in France Seasonal worker in Germany Seasonal worker in Greece Seasonal worker in Hungary Seasonal worker in Ireland Seasonal worker in Italy Seasonal worker in Latvia Seasonal worker in Lithuania Seasonal worker in Luxembourg Seasonal worker in Malta Seasonal worker in Poland Seasonal worker in Portugal Seasonal worker in Romania Seasonal worker in the Netherlands Self-employed worker in Estonia Self-employed worker in Finland Self-employed worker in France Self-employed worker in Germany Self-employed worker in Greece Self-employed worker in Hungary Self-employed worker in Ireland Self-employed worker in Italy Self-employed worker in Latvia Self-employed worker in Lithuania Self-employed worker in Luxembourg Self-employed worker in Malta Self-employed worker in Poland Self-employed worker in Portugal Self-employed worker in Romania Self-employed worker in the Netherlands Self-employed worker in Belgium Self-employed worker in Austria Self-employed worker in Bulgaria Self-employed worker in Croatia Self-employed worker in Cyprus Self-employed worker in Czechia Self-employed worker in Denmark Student in Belgium Student in Austria Student in Bulgaria Student in Croatia Student in Cyprus Student in Czechia Student in Denmark Student in Estonia Student in Finland Student in France Student in Germany Researcher in Greece Student in Greece Student in Hungary Student in Ireland Student in Italy Student in Latvia Student in Lithuania Student in Luxembourg Student in Malta Student in Poland Student in Portugal Student in Romania Student in the Netherlands Trainee in Belgium Trainee in Austria Trainee in Bulgaria Trainee in Croatia Trainee in Cyprus Trainee in Czechia Trainee in Denmark Trainee in Estonia Trainee in Finland Trainee in France Trainee in Germany Trainee in Greece Trainee in Hungary Trainee in Ireland Trainee in Italy Trainee in Latvia Trainee in Lithuania Trainee in Luxembourg Trainee in Malta Trainee in Poland Trainee in Portugal Trainee in Romania Trainee in the Netherlands Volunteer in Belgium Volunteer in Austria Volunteer in Bulgaria Volunteer in Croatia Volunteer in Cyprus Volunteer in Czechia Volunteer in Denmark Volunteer in Estonia Volunteer in Finland Volunteer in France Volunteer in Germany Volunteer in Greece Volunteer in Hungary Volunteer in Ireland Volunteer in Italy Volunteer in Latvia Volunteer in Lithuania Volunteer in Luxembourg Volunteer in Malta Volunteer in Poland Volunteer in Portugal Volunteer in Romania Volunteer in the Netherlands Who does what? What category do I fit into? Already in the EU? What should I avoid? EU Blue Card See all Irregular migration and return An effective, firm and fair EU return and readmission policy International Conference on a Global Alliance to Counter Migrant Smuggling Migrant smuggling The EU Return Coordinator 2025 International Conference of the Global Alliance to Counter Migrant Smuggling See all Legal migration and resettlement European Migration Forum (EMF) Legal migration fitness check Long-term residents Resettlement and humanitarian admission Study and research Family reunification with non-EU nationals Talent Partnerships Work See all Migrant integration Migrant integration hub EU integration policy EU long-term residence See all Migration management Effective system of solidarity and responsibility for managing asylum and migration in the EU Migration Management in Italy Migration Management in Spain Migration management in Cyprus Relocation: EU solidarity in practice Search and rescue Welcoming displaced people from Ukraine Migration management in Greece See all Pact on Migration and Asylum First Annual Migration Management Cycle Legislative files in a nutshell Implementing the Pact on Migration and Asylum Questions and answers on the Pact on Migration and Asylum See all Statistics on migration to Europe Discover more Schengen Schengen Schengen guarantees free movement to more than 450 million EU citizens, along with non-EU nationals living in the EU or visiting the EU as tourists, exchange students or for business purposes, anyone legally present in the EU. Border crossing Short-stay calculator See all Eurosur Effective management of external borders Interoperability Schengen Information System Access rights and data protection Alerts and data in SIS Questions and answers SIRENE cooperation Schengen Information System (SIS) success stories What is SIS and how does it work? See all Schengen area History of Schengen Schengen Governance Temporary Reintroduction of Border Control See all Smart Borders European Travel Information and Authorisation System (ETIAS) Entry/Exit System (EES) See all Travel and residence documents Visa Information System (VIS) Key documents and legislation on VIS See all Visa policy Applying for a Schengen visa Legal documents related to Schengen visas Short-stay visas issued by Schengen countries See all Discover more Internal security Internal security The European Commission plays a key role in shaping and implementing the EU’s internal security policies, ensuring that security is integrated into EU legislation and policies. Counter-terrorism and radicalisation Fight against the financing of terrorism Prevention of radicalisation Protection See all Cybercrime E-evidence International cooperation against cybercrime See all Innovation and security research Security Research Event See all Law enforcement cooperation EMPACT fighting crime together Cooperation with Europol Cooperation with CEPOL Information exchange Operational law enforcement cooperation Supporting action: funding, research and innovation Travel Information See all Lawful access to data Data retention Encryption Projects for digital investigations See all Organised crime Confiscation and asset recovery Crime prevention Drugs policy Financial investigations Money laundering Together Against Trafficking in Human Beings Trafficking in cultural goods Trafficking in firearms Counterfeiting See all Protecting children from sexual abuse Funding to support the fight against child sexual abuse Cooperation against child sexual abuse EU versus Child Sexual Abuse Legal framework to protect children What is the EU doing to protect children from sexual abuse? See all Discover more Agencies Networks Networks The DG for Migration and Home Affairs organises and supports networks where members exchange views and information on policies, such as: child sexual abuse, radicalisation, drugs, protection of critical infrastructure and migration. CERIS - Community for European Research and Innovation for Security About CERIS CERIS in pictures CERIS events CERIS news EU security market study Subscribe Thematic areas See all European Migration Forum (EMF) EU Knowledge Hub on Prevention of Radicalisation Calls for Applications Policy and Practice Joint Events Knowledge Transfer Inspiring Practices Repository Prev. Inspiring Practices Repository Thematic Panels Welcome Package Expert Database Media PCVE & Strategic Communications The Root Causes of Violent Extremism - The Basics Strategic Orientations on a coordinated EU approach to prevention of radicalisation A Way Out From Violent Extremism Establishing Common Standards ‒ Gender-specific approaches in practical P/CVE EU Security Union Strategy About the EU Knowledge Hub on Prevention of Radicalisation Spotlight on Gender Guide for Teachers and Schools News Calendar See all RAN Policy Support EC Research e-Library on Radicalisation See all European Migration Network (EMN) About the EMN EMN Asylum and Migration Glossary EMN Events EMN Member and Observer Countries EMN partners EMN publications EMNews Expert groups See all European Union Internet Forum Labour Migration Platform Law Enforcement Networks Working Group (LENWG) Network for the Prevention of Child Sexual Abuse High-Level Group (HLG) on access to data for effective law enforcement Civil Society Forum on Drugs (CSF) RAN Practitioners (archived) About RAN Civil Society Empowerment Programme (CSEP) Collection of inspiring practices Conferences and Webinars Publications RAN Media RAN News RAN Participants RAN Practitioners pages RAN Publications RAN YOUNG PLATFORM RAN in the Western Balkans Topics and Working Groups See all Discover more Funding Funding Learn about EU funds supporting projects on migration and home affairs: Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF), Internal Security Fund (ISF) and Horizon Europe funding for security research. Asylum, migration and integration funds Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (2021-2027) Asylum, Migration and Integration fund (2014-2020) European Migration Network (EMN) See all Borders and visa funds Integrated Border Management Fund – Border Management and Visa Instrument (2021-27) Internal Security Fund - Borders and visa (2014-2020) See all Internal security funds Internal Security Fund (2021-2027) Internal Security Fund - Police (2014-2020) See all EU Civil security research funds EU Projects in Action Funding contacts Funding communication material Ongoing calls Discover more What&#039;s new What&#039;s new All the latest news, events, publications and more from DG Migration & Home affairs. News Communication campaigns Celebrate 40 years of Schengen End human trafficking. Break the invisible chain See all Newsletter Events Public consultations Publications Evaluations and impact assessments Mid-term evaluation of the Europe for Citizens programme 2014-2020 Ex-post evaluation of the programme "Prevention of and fight against Crime" (ISEC) 2007-2013 Ex-post evaluation of the four instruments under the General Programme “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows” (SOLID) Ex-post evaluation of the &#039;Prevention, Preparedness and Consequence Management of Terrorism and other Security related risks Programme&#039; (&#039;CIPS&#039;) (2007-2013) See all EU law monitoring Discover more Who we are Who we are About DG Migration & Home affairs About us Job opportunities Contact us Discover more HOME … Policies Migration and asylum EU Immigration Portal Employed worker in the Netherlands Employed worker in the Netherlands Are you a non-EU citizen wishing to work as an employed worker in the Netherlands? You can find information below on the conditions to fulfil and procedures to follow, as well as the rights you can enjoy during your stay. 1 April 2025 Page contents Page contents Conditions A labour migrant is a third-country national who comes to the Netherlands to work as an employed worker. Also included are spiritual leaders or ministers of religion. Most of the times, you can apply for a GVVA (single permit for residence and work). The GVVA combines the residence permit and the work permit (TWV ). You thus only apply for one permit. You do this at the Immigration and Naturalisation Service ( IND ). The IND asks advice from the Netherlands Employees Insurance Agency (UWV) about the labour market aspect. UWV assesses the request for advice based on the criteria of the Foreign Nationals Employment Act (Wav). The GVVA consists of a residence document and an additional document. The additional document states for which employer the third-country national may work and under which conditions. Different conditions apply to persons with the nationality of an EU/EEA country or Switzerland and their family members. Conditions to migrate to the Netherlands as an employed worker Requirements for single permit for paid employment can be found here . In some cases, it is not possible to apply for a single permit in which case you can apply for a residence permit for paid employment. The conditions and requirements for this permit can be found here . There are also certain conditions that apply to everyone who wants to stay in the Netherlands for more than 3 months. Procedures Where and how to apply To travel to the Netherlands, you need a provisional residence permit (mvv). The mvv is a sticker that the Dutch representation places in the passport. In some cases, you do not need an mvv . You apply for the mvv and the residence permit at the same time. This can be done in 2 ways: You (to the Dutch representation in your own country or the country of continuous residence) or your employer (applies to the IND in the Netherlands) can submit the application for a GVVA. Are you only allowed to work with a work permit? And is it not possible to apply for a GVVA? Your employer has to apply for a TWV at the UWV . Your employer has to do this at the same time as the application for your residence permit. You cannot do this yourself. For more information on where and how to apply, please check here , or contact your employer as to the procedures to be followed. Your employer can choose to become a recognised sponsor . This is not obligatory. Recognition as sponsor has various advantages. Other conditions may apply for Turkish nationals and their family members. Documents required The application form lists the documents that you must enclose with the application. You have to have official foreign documents legalised and translated into Dutch, English, French or German. Duration of validity of permits The Single Permit (GVVA) is valid for a maximum of 1 year. The period of validity of your residence permit is the same as the period for which the work permit is given. If you do not need a work permit to work, the period of validity of your residence permit then is the same as the length of your employment contract with a maximum validity of 5 years. Further requirements Upon arrival, you must: make an online appointment to collect the single permit in person from an Immigration and Naturalisation Service desk . The single permit consists of a residence document and an additional document stating the specific conditions under which you may work for your employer; register in the Municipal Personal Records Database (BRP) in the municipality where you will be living; make an appointment within three months after the permit has been granted with the Area Health Authority (GGD) to undergo a tuberculosis test if required; take out health insurance within 4 months following your arrival in the Netherlands. Appeals You have a decision on your application. The application has been rejected. Or your application has been approved, but you disagree with, for example, the start date or the labour market notification of your residence permit. You may submit an application for review. If you have a negative decision by the IND on your application for review, you may appeal to the court. More on appeals Further information All information specific for your nationality on residence permits can be found here . More on the admission as an employed worker in the Netherlands Costs for residence permits for work in employment (including spending leave after work on board a Dutch seagoing vessel or mining installation): € 350,00 (2023). More information about fees can be found here as they change regularly. Rights Extension of stay Is your residence permit due to expire soon? Apply for an extension . Change of status Has something changed in your situation that influences your residence permit? Please report this immediately to the IND. It may mean that the residence permit has to be changed. Employment The Single Permit (GVVA) consists of a residence permit and an additional document. The residence permit states 'Arbeid toegestaan conform aanvullend document' (work permitted according to additional document). The additional document states for which employer you may work and under which conditions. The residence document and additional document allow you to live and work for your employer in the Netherlands. Your employer receives a copy of the additional document. You or your employer do not need a Single Permit or a TWV when you are free on the labour market. You are e.g. free on the labour market when you have worked in the Netherlands for 5 years. You or your employer only have to apply for a residence permit at the IND. Permanent residence If you have lawfully lived in the Netherlands for an uninterrupted period of five years and you have a valid residence permit for a non-temporary purpose of stay, such as ´work in employment´, you can apply for a permanent residence permit. Certain conditions will have to be met in order to be eligible for permanent residence. Family reunification As the holder of a residence permit to work as an employed worker, it is possible to bring your spouse, (registered) partner or minor child(ren) to the Netherlands. Certain conditions will have to be met in order to be allowed to bring your family members. Links Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) (Home) Employee Insurance Agency (UWV) New in the Netherlands Share this page Migration and Home Affairs This site is managed by: Directorate-General for Migration and Home Affairs Contact us Contact our DG More information on: Live, work, travel in the EU Follow the European Commission Mastodon LinkedIn Bluesky Facebook Youtube Other Contact us Report an IT vulnerability Languages on our websites Cookies Privacy policy Legal notice Accessibility
