Health insurance and residence permit | Government.nl Go to content To the homepage of Government.nl Government of the Netherlands Home Themes Family, health and care Health insurance Enter what you are looking for Health insurance and residence permit You must take out Dutch health insurance within four months of your permanent residence permit coming into force. Your health insurance policy must be effective from the date your residence permit comes into force. If the insurance commences with retroactive effect, you will have to pay the premium retroactively. No Dutch health insurance without a residence permit If a decision has not been taken on your application for a residence permit, you cannot take out health insurance in the Netherlands, not even if you have an authorisation for temporary stay. Foreign or international insurance Some healthcare insurers offer policies to people who move to the Netherlands to study, work or for another reason. To be eligible, you must satisfy the following conditions: you do not have Dutch health insurance; you do not have a permanent residence permit; you do not live in a reception facility for asylum seekers. Contact a healthcare insurer for more information. Health insurance from another country If you have health insurance in another country that provides cover in the Netherlands, you will be reimbursed the cost of health care received here provided you do not have a permanent residence permit and do not live in a reception facility for asylum seekers. Medical care for illegal aliens Illegal aliens cannot take out health insurance in the Netherlands but will receive any medical care considered necessary by the attending physician. If they cannot pay for their treatments, they may be eligible for assistance from the Healthcare Institute. Medical expenses scheme for asylum seekers Asylum seekers awaiting a final decision on their asylum applications are housed in asylum centres. They are insured collectively under the Asylum Seekers Healthcare Scheme (RZA) and are entitled to nearly all the care provided under the standard package and the Long-Term Care Act (Wlz). Was the information on this page useful for you? Yes No More on this topic Coming from abroad zorgverzekeringslijn.nl Related to Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport Ministry Service Contact Documents RSS Sitemap Help Archive About this site Copyright Privacy Cookies Use of AI Accessibility Report vulnerability This website in other languages: Nederlands English Papiamento Papiamentu
