Should foreign accounts be reported? | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Money - Taxes - Consumption Bank accounts Should foreign accounts be reported? This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Should foreign accounts be reported? Verified 10 October 2024 - Directorate for Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) If you live in mainland France, Guadeloupe, Martinique, French Guiana, Reunion, Mayotte or Monaco, you must declare your accounts opened abroad to the tax authorities. Types of accounts to be reported, reporting modalities, sanctions for non-reporting: here is the information to know. Unfold all What accounts open abroad are to be reported? You must report to the tax authority accounts opened, held, used (at least once) or closed in the year abroad. You must declare accounts opened abroad with a bank or any other organization or person (notary, stockbroker, etc.). Please note The digital asset accounts and open life insurance contracts abroad must also be reported, but under different rules. On the other hand, the reporting obligation does not concern the account you hold abroad that fills out the three following conditions : The purpose of the account is to make online purchase payments or cash receipts for sales of goods The opening of the account implies the holding of another account opened in France and to which it is backed The amount of annual receipts credited to this account for sales you make does not exceed 10,000. € Who is required to report accounts opened abroad? You must declare your accounts open, used or closed abroad if you are a individual , a association or a non-commercial business . You have an obligation to declare, whether you are incumbent of an account or beneficiary of an power of attorney to use the account. You are not required to report accounts opened abroad in one of two cases: You are an individual and you are not required to report your income You are an association that, having no taxable income, is not required to file a tax return. How do I report accounts opened abroad? You must complete, date and sign the following declaration: 2024 Reporting of Accounts Opened, Used or Closed Abroad You must attach this document to your income tax return every year. Please note Only one return is required if you share ownership of the account with your spouse. This also applies if you have a power of attorney on your spouse's account. If you forget or include inaccurate information in the return, you may be fined €15 by omission or inaccuracy. The total fines applicable to the documents that you must submit at the same time cannot be less than €60 not greater than €10,000 . What is the risk if accounts opened abroad are not reported? If you do not report one of your accounts abroad, you may be fined €1,500 by undeclared account. If the account is located in a State that has not concluded an agreement with France to combat tax evasion and avoidance, the fine will be €10,000 per account. Warning If you have not reported one of your offshore accounts, you may be subject to an 80% increase in the amount of tax recalls. This increase then replaces the fine of €1,500 or €10,000 . The amount of the 80% increase may not be less than the fine of €1,500 or €10,000 . Statute and miscellaneous references General Tax Code: Articles 1649A to 1649AC Statements on financial accounts General Tax Code: Articles 1729 and 1729-0 A Article 1729-0 A: increase in case of non-declaration Bofip-Taxes n°BOI-CF-CPF-30-20 relating to the obligations of taxpayers for the prevention of fraud - Declaration of accounts opened, used or closed outside France Online services and forms 2024 Reporting of Accounts Opened, Used or Closed Abroad Form FAQ What are the penalties for tax evasion? Additional topics Income Tax - Annual Income Tax Return Service Public Reporting of accounts for digital assets held abroad General Directorate of Public Finance How do I report my accounts and life insurance contracts held abroad? Ministry of Finance Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
