Health insurance of a foreigner that settles in France | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Social - Health Health insurance of a foreigner in France Health insurance of a foreigner that settles in France This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Health insurance of a foreigner that settles in France Verified 02 April 2024 - Directorate for Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Additional cases ? Other case: short stay in France Are you a foreigner and are you planning to settle in France? Health insurance rights differ if you are a citizen of a European Economic Area (EEA) countries and Switzerland, the United Kingdom or another country. The rules applicable and the steps to be taken depend on your status (employee, pensioner, student, jobseeker). Here are the rules to know. EEA and Switzerland United Kingdom Other country EEA and Switzerland Unfold all Student The approach is not the same depending on whether you have the EHIC, an S1 form or none of these 2 documents. For optimal reimbursement of your healthcare costs, you can subscribe to a complementary health or a mutual . Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You have a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) You got it from the social welfare agency from your country of origin one EHIC . By presenting your EHIC in France, you will be taken care of under the same conditions as the insured of the French scheme. Your card must be valid at least until the end of the current academic year. You have a S1 portable document To benefit from the coverage of your health costs during your studies, you must register with French Health Insurance on the website student-foreigner.ameli.fr. Registration of a foreigner student to Social Security You must attach to this request: The form S1 A certificate of enrollment for the current academic year A proof of marital status A Bank Identity Statement (BIT) You do not have an EHIC or S1 portable document In order to benefit from the coverage of your health costs during your studies, you must register with Social Security on the website student-foreigner.ameli.fr. Registration of a foreigner student to Social Security You must attach to this request: A certificate of enrollment for the current academic year An attestation of resources Proof of identity A proof of marital status A Bank Identity Statement (BIT) You need to have sufficient resources to support yourself and your accompanying family members. Job-seeker The approach differs depending on whether or not you receive unemployment benefits from your last country of affiliation. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You receive unemployment benefits from the last country of affiliation You own the U2 form allowing your unemployment benefit from the last State of affiliation to be maintained for a period of 3 to 6 months depending on the country. For care management, you present to health professionals in France your European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) . You do not receive unemployment benefits from the last country of affiliation Before you leave , you must apply to your health insurance organization for a certificate of transfer of entitlement to health insurance benefits in the event that the entitlement to this scheme is to be maintained: EHIC or the certificate in its place Or the S1 portable document If you are not entitled to a social insurance policy, you must contact the health insurance of your place of residence in France to determine under what conditions you may be entitled to social insurance. Worker The approach is not the same whether you are expatriate or seconded. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You're an expatriate If you come to work and reside in France as an expatriate, you are insured in France (with exceptions, for example, if you are a public servant). Within the framework of the universal health protection (Puma) , any person working in France shall be entitled to the payment of his health costs from 1 era time of activity. Thus, if you have a professional activity in France, you are immediately entitled to the payment of health expenses. FYI Your employer must complete the formalities related to your hiring (DPAE). But you must contact the health insurance fund of your place of residence to finalize your registration. In case of incapacity for work After a resumption of activity in France, the French health insurance fund will ask your last foreign health insurance fund for form S041 (formerly E104). This form allows the aggregation of insurance periods completed in the previous country of employment with the French insurance periods to avoid a waiting for entitlement. FYI If they have been residing in France with you since more than 3 months , your family members are covered by the French Health Insurance and are reimbursed for health care, medical treatment and hospitalization. If they remain resident in your country of origin , you request the form S1 provided by your French Health Insurance. Your family members' health insurance in the State of residence will check whether they are family members under local law. If so, this form will allow your family members to benefit in their country of residence from the benefits of the Health Insurance. You're detached If you are temporarily posted by your employer ( Maximum 24 months unless derogated) in France and you reside there, you continue to be covered by the social security scheme of your country of origin. In order to benefit from the care that will be provided to you in France as if you were affiliated to it, you must register for the French Social Security system. For that, you must, before you leave , request document S1. You should ask the health insurance organization you report to in your country of origin. Once in France However, it must be handed over to the health insurance fund of your home. You will then benefit from the support for expenses in France. You will continue to receive your health insurance from your country of affiliation for all care received in your country of origin. Your family members who accompany you to France can also benefit, under certain conditions, from the reimbursement of the care provided to them in France. Please note You are posted to France from Switzerland ? If you transfer your residence to France for a long time, you can choose between the French health insurance and the Swiss scheme for the care of your healthcare. You're a public servant If you are an official of another European country, sent to France (e.g. diplomatic staff), you remain subject to the social protection scheme of the country to which your administration belongs. In order to receive reimbursement for your medical treatment in France, you must first ask your affiliation organization on S1 document (registration for health insurance coverage). You must then present this document to the competent health insurance fund in France. Retired You can transfer your rights to Health Insurance. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement General case If you are retired from another European country and come to live your retirement in France, you can transfer your rights French Health Insurance. You have to ask to the fund of the country in which your pension is due document S1 (registration for health insurance coverage). It is this fund that sends the document to your health insurance fund in France. This document allows your attachment to the French social security system. Your family members accompanying you to France must also apply for the S1 document. You are entitled to a pension exclusively from the Swiss scheme If you hold a pension exclusively from the Swiss scheme and you reside in France, you benefit from a right of option . United Kingdom Unfold all Student You must apply for a long-stay student visa to come and study in France. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You have a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), a replacement certificate or a Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) By presenting your EHIC to healthcare professionals in France, you will be taken care of under the same conditions as the insured of the French scheme. Your card must be valid at least until the end of the current academic year. You have a S1 portable document You must register on the website student-foreigner.ameli.fr: Registration of a foreigner student to Social Security You don't have any of those documents You must register on the website student-foreigner.ameli.fr: Registration of a foreigner student to Social Security Job-seeker In case of inactivity in France, you can benefit from the Puma provided that the condition relating to the lawfulness of the stay is complied with. For this, you present a residence permit. You thus open the right to French health insurance. There are no laws providing for the export of unemployment rights. You can get closer to France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) to find out if you can benefit from French services. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) Expat worker Under the universal health protection (Puma) , you are entitled to the payment of your health expenses without waiting period from 1 era time of activity. Other country Unfold all Student You must register on the site dedicated to the reception of students, in order to benefit from the coverage of your health costs upon your arrival in France: Health insurance: registration of a foreigner student Warning Agreements with Andorra, Monaco and Quebec provide for special provisions . Job-seeker In case of inactivity in France, you can benefit from the Puma provided that the condition relating to the lawfulness of the stay is complied with. For this, you present a residence permit. You thus open the right to French health insurance. Worker If you are an expatriate or posted, and your country is or is not a signatory to a social security agreement with France, your situation differs. Depending on your status, it is recommended to ask the health insurance fund of your country of origin before your departure. If you are a civil servant and sent to the embassy, you keep your Health Insurance. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You're an expatriate If you come to work and reside in France as an expatriate, you are insured in France (with exceptions, for example if you are a civil servant). You are no longer insured in your country of origin and must contribute to the French social security system. Under the universal health protection (Puma) , you are entitled to the payment of your health costs without delay. You don't have to have worked a certain number of hours. If you come from a country linked to France by a social security agreement, before you leave for France, check with your affiliation organization if you need to obtain a form allowing the aggregation of periods of sickness and maternity insurance. You can get in touch with the Cleiss to find out the conditions for reimbursing your health expenses. Who shall I contact Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) General information on social security abroad and assistance with individual applications By telephone +33 (0) 1 45 26 33 41 Hotline: Monday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Tuesday from 1.30pm to 4.30pm Wednesday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Thursday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm Friday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm By E-mail Access to contact form By mail Center for European and International Social Security Liaison 44 Armand Carrel Street 93100 Montreuil You're detached The conditions of your secondment are defined by the social security convention which your country of origin may have signed with France. Your country of origin has signed an agreement with France It is up to you to ask your employer and your health insurance fund for details on how to pay for your health care and that of your family in France. Depending on the social security agreement, claims for reimbursement of health costs incurred in France may be made: To the health insurance fund of your country of origin Or, if the agreement so provides, at the primary health insurance fund in the place of your residence. You can get in touch with the Cleiss to find out the conditions for reimbursing your health expenses. Who shall I contact Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) General information on social security abroad and assistance with individual applications By telephone +33 (0) 1 45 26 33 41 Hotline: Monday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Tuesday from 1.30pm to 4.30pm Wednesday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Thursday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm Friday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm By E-mail Access to contact form By mail Center for European and International Social Security Liaison 44 Armand Carrel Street 93100 Montreuil Your country of origin has not signed a social security agreement with France You and your employer will have to contribute to the French social security system and receive the benefits provided by it. Under the universal health protection (Puma) , you are entitled to the payment of your health costs without delay. You don't have to have worked a certain number of hours. You're a public servant If you are sent by your administration to an embassy, consulate or other official body, you will still be covered by your country's health insurance. Retired You can get in touch with the Cleiss to find out the conditions for reimbursing your health expenses. Who shall I contact Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) General information on social security abroad and assistance with individual applications By telephone +33 (0) 1 45 26 33 41 Hotline: Monday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Tuesday from 1.30pm to 4.30pm Wednesday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Thursday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm Friday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm By E-mail Access to contact form By mail Center for European and International Social Security Liaison 44 Armand Carrel Street 93100 Montreuil Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Primary health insurance fund (CPAM) Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) General information on social security abroad and assistance with individual applications By telephone +33 (0) 1 45 26 33 41 Hotline: Monday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Tuesday from 1.30pm to 4.30pm Wednesday from 9 am to 12:30 pm Thursday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm Friday from 1:30pm to 4:30pm By E-mail Access to contact form By mail Center for European and International Social Security Liaison 44 Armand Carrel Street 93100 Montreuil Statute and miscellaneous references Regulation No 883/2004 of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems Regulation No 987/2009 of 16 September 2009 on the coordination of social security systems FAQ What is Universal Health Protection (UHC)? Additional topics Form S1 - Registration for sickness insurance benefits Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Information concerning the S1 form and its use Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Welcome to France: personalized information for your installation in France Business France French social protection scheme for employed persons Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Coordination of social security in the European Union European Commission Coordination of social security in the European Union European Commission Reside in France on a stable and regular basis Solidarity Health Complementary Fund You come to study in France (Ameli) National Health Insurance Fund (Cnam) You come to study in France: your social protection Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Student: your support National Health Insurance Fund (Cnam) Countries under a social security convention Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) You are a pensioner of the only Swiss scheme and come to live your retirement in France Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Social security and international mobility Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) You come to France to work as a detached from Switzerland Center for European and International Social Security Liaison (Cleiss) Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
