Talent card: multi-year residence card of a foreigner in France | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Titles, residence cards and travel documents for foreigner in France Talent card: multi-year residence card of a foreigner in France This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Talent card: multi-year residence card of a foreigner in France Verified 01 June 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) You are foreigner no European and you wish work in France more than 3 months ? You can benefit from a multi-annual residence card ‘talent’ under some conditions . The procedure for applying for the card differs depending on whether you are in France or to the foreigner . We present you the information you need to know according to your situation. FYI You must apply for a talent residence card if the duration of intended stay is of at least 1 year . If the length of stay is less than 1 year, a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VL-TS ) mention talent enough. Unfold all Qualified employee The residence card ' skilled employee-talent’ authorizes you to stay in France and authorizes you to pursue an employed professional activity. Your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions The residence card ' skilled employee-talent » may be issued on any of the following 3 grounds: Qualified employee Employee of an innovative company Employee on assignment. The conditions of issue differ according to the reason: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Qualified employee You can obtain a residence card " qualified employee-talent - qualified employee journey » if you fill the 2 following conditions: Have obtained a diploma in France at least equivalent to the master's degree or a level 1 diploma labeled by the Conference of Grandes Ecoles and issued by a higher institution authorized at national level Have an employment contract of more than 3 months that provides for an annual gross remuneration greater than or equal to €39,582 . Employee of an innovative company You can get a residence card "skilled talent-employee - employee journey of an innovative company" if you fill all the following conditions: Be recruited in an innovative young company or a company recognized as innovative by the ministry of economy Have functions directly related to this company's research and development project Have an employment contract that provides for an annual gross remuneration greater than or equal to €39,582 . Employee on assignment You can get a residence card « qualified talent-employee - employee career in mission » if you fill all the following conditions: Be an employee of a company established abroad and come to France to pursue an activity as an employee in the context of mobility between establishments of the same company or between companies of the same group (intra-group mobility) Have a seniority of at least 3 months in the group that employs you Have a employment contract with the company that employs you in France Receive annual gross compensation equal to or greater than €39,582 . 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: Abroad In France Abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF In France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF 3 Prepare the documents to be provided The documents to be provided differ depending on the reason for your card: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Qualified employee Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Diploma If the activity is regulated: compliance with the regulatory conditions of practice of the profession (authorization to practice, diploma, title, certification, authorization, declaration, registration, etc.). Employer certificate. An employer attestation template is available: Employer certificate for talent/employee reasons files Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Employee of an innovative company Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Documents concerning the company: attestation of the Ministry of Economy recognizing the innovative character of the company or tax document establishing the status of innovative young company Employer attestation proving that the functions performed are related to the company's research and development project or its economic, social, international and environmental development (a online service allows you to download a template for an employer attestation) If the activity is regulated : evidence of compliance with the regulatory conditions for the practice of the profession (authorization to practice, diploma, title, certification, authorization, declaration, registration, etc.). Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Employee on assignment Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Social security posting certificate (or sworn certificate of application for registration with the French social security) Letter detailing the functions performed and the purpose of the mission to be performed Certification of the employer Proof of at least 3 months' professional seniority in the group or company established abroad, produced by the employer abroad If the activity is regulated : evidence of compliance with the regulatory conditions for the practice of the profession (authorization to practice, diploma, title, certification, authorization, declaration, registration...)) Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application online within 2 months of entering France if you hold a long-stay visa. Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application on the Internet at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document, if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit. Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture on the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can purchase your tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . European Blue Card The residence card ' talent-european blue card » authorizes you to stay and to exercise a professional activity in France. Your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. The duration of the residence permit talent-european blue card ’ depends on the duration of the employment contract: Where the employment contract has a duration of at least 2 years, the card is issued for a duration equal to that of the contract, within the limit of 4 years Where the employment contract has a duration of less than 2 years, the card is issued for a duration equal to that of the contract, increased by 3 months, within the limit of 2 years. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can obtain a residence card " talent-european blue card’ if you fill the whole the following conditions: Have a diploma attesting to at least 3 years of higher education or 5 years of professional experience of a level comparable to that obtained following a higher education diploma and which are relevant to the sector or profession in which you wish to practice. This period of professional experience is reduced to 3 years acquired during the 7 years preceding your application if you wish to practice in one of the professions set by decree of the Minister in charge of immigration. Have an employment contract of at least 6 months Have a gross annual salary greater than or equal to 1.5 times the average annual gross salary, or €59,373.00 annual gross. Please note This card is also granted if you have stayed at least 1 year in another EU countries with a european blue card. You must apply within one month of entering France. This minimum stay is reduced to 6 months from the 2 e mobility within a member state of the European Union. 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: You live abroad You live in France You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent" . On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you are a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you have long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit or EU Blue Card issued by another EU countries if you have resided for 1 year (or 6 months) in this other state Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Employer certificate (one online service allows you to download a template for an employer attestation) Diploma of Bac +3 level or any document proving at least 5 years or 3 years of professional experience of comparable level (curriculum vitae, work certificate proving professional experience, etc.) If the activity is regulated : evidence of compliance with the regulatory conditions for the practice of the profession (authorization to practice, diploma, title, certification, authorization, declaration, registration, etc.) Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the expiry of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can purchase your tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 90 days, this is an implicit refusal. This period is 30 days if you already hold an EU Blue Card in another EU Member State. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Medical and pharmacy professions The residence card ' talent-medical and pharmacy professions » authorizes you to stay and work in France under certain conditions. Your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can obtain a residence card " talent-medical and pharmacy professions’ if you fill all the following conditions: You have a license to practice provided for by the Public Health Code: assignment decision, certificate allowing a temporary practice or authorization to practice You must prove gross annual remuneration equal to the 2nd step of the salary scale of associate practitioners, either €41,386.48 . 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: You live abroad You live in France You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." Upon your arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa validated valid for residence permit on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card with the prefecture of your department of residence, within 2 months of your entry into France . Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local Pivot local service en ligne. What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. You live in France You must submit your application to the prefecture of your department within the previous 2 months the expiry of your residence permit. You will find on the website of your prefecture details on how to submit your application. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 ID photos One certificate completed, signed and stamped by the employer Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Warning The other documents expected concerning the specific conditions of the card " talent-medical and pharmacy professions’ will be specified as soon as they become available. They should provide justification for the following: Assignment decision or certificate permitting a temporary exercise or authorization to exercise Level of remuneration at least equal to €41,386.48 . 4 Make the approach to the prefecture You must submit your application to the prefecture of your department. You will find on the website of your prefecture details on how to submit your application. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Researcher The residence card ' research talent » authorizes you to stay in France. It allows you to work. Your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. This card is also granted to you if you are a researcher in another EU countries and that you come to carry out part of your work for more than 3 months in France. In this case, you do not need a long-stay visa. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can obtain a residence card " talent-researcher - exercise of an employed activity’ if you fill all the following conditions: Have a degree at least equivalent to the master's degree Coming to France to conduct research or provide university-level teaching Have a hosting agreement signed with an approved public or private body with a research or higher education mission. The agreement must indicate that you are a researcher and the purpose and duration of your stay in France. If you are planning to travel to another EU country for your research, the convention must specify your membership of a mobility program. In this case, you can ask for a residence card "talent-researcher - mobility program ". Please note A minimum remuneration threshold of €2,200 brut applies to the researcher who has signed a research stay agreement. 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: You live abroad You live in France You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Diploma at least equivalent to the master's degree Host Convention attesting that you are a researcher, the purpose and duration of your stay in France. It will need to indicate your membership of a mobility program if you plan to travel to another EU country for your research work Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the Internet at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture didn't respond at the end 60 days, this is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Project leader The residence card ' project-leading talent » authorizes you to stay in France and to carry out a commercial activity in connection with your project. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions The residence card ' project-leading talent may be issued for 3 different reasons, each of which corresponds to specific conditions: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Company creation You can obtain a residence card " talent-project leader - company creation journey » if you fill the 4 following conditions: Have a degree at least equivalent to the master's degree or 5 years of comparable professional experience Justify a real and serious company creation project in France Provide sufficient resources to support yourself and your family members, at least equivalent to Smic : titleContent full-time annual gross, or €22,404.20 Provide evidence of at least one company project funding €30,000 . Innovative economic project You can get a residence card "talent-project leader - innovative economic project path" if you have an innovative economic project recognized by the Ministry of Economy. You must also have sufficient resources to support yourself and your family, at least equal to Smic : titleContent full-time either €22,404.20 annual gross. Direct economic investment You can obtain a residence card " talent-project leader - economic investment journey » if you meet all of the following conditions: Invest personally or through a business you manage or own 30% of capital Create or save or commit to create or save jobs Investment in tangible or intangible fixed assets in France at least equal to €300,000 . 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. If you have a project of company creation or an innovative economic project, you must first ask the ministry responsible for the economy for an opinion on the real and serious nature of your company creation project. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If you have a project of company creation or an innovative economic project, you must first ask the ministry responsible for the economy for an opinion on the real and serious nature of your company creation project. 3 Prepare the documents to be provided The documents to be provided differ according to the reason for your residence card " project-leading talent » : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Company creation Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Diploma at least equivalent to the master's degree or any document demonstrating at least 5 years' professional experience of a comparable level For a 1 re application for a ‘talent’ residence permit: criminal record extract (or equivalent document from the country of which you are a national) If the activity is regulated : evidence of compliance with the regulatory conditions for the practice of the profession (authorization to practice, diploma, title, certification, authorization, declaration, registration...)) Proof of an investment of at least €30,000 in the company project (own or borrowed) Proof of resources greater than or equal to Smic : titleContent for a full time Proof of company registration (statutes, K extract or number) SIREN ), or affiliation to the social system of the self-employed Opinion of the Ministry of Economy on the real and serious nature of the company creation project Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Innovative economic project Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Opinion of the Ministry of Economy on the innovative nature of the project Proof of resources greater than or equal to Smic : titleContent for a full time Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Direct economic investment in France Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Proof of personal direction of a company or detention of at least 30% capital of a business or personal investment Proof of the creation or safeguarding (or commitment to create or safeguard) of employment within 4 years of the investment in France Commitment letter with annual job creation and foreigner investment plan (business plan) Proof of realization or commitment to make a direct investment in France of at least €300,000 Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the expiry of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Corporate officer The residence card ' talent-corporate officer » entitles you to stay in France and to carry out any commercial activity in connection with the corporate purpose of the company. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can obtain a residence card " talent-corporate officer’ if you fill all the following conditions: Occupy the position of legal representative in an establishment or business established in France Have at least 3 months' seniority as an employee or corporate officer in an establishment or business of the same group Annual gross remuneration is greater than or equal to 3 times the Smic : titleContent either €67,212.60 . 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Proof of your position as corporate officer in an establishment or business established in France Proof of the status of employee or corporate officer for more than 3 months in an establishment or a business of the same group Proof of resources greater than or equal to 3 times the Smic : titleContent (or €67,212.60 annual gross) Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the Internet at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Artistic and cultural profession The residence card ' artistic and cultural talent-profession » authorizes you to stay in France. It authorizes you to pursue an employed and/or self-employed professional activity. In the course of your paid employment, your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can get a residence card « artistic and cultural talent-profession » if you are a performer or author of a literary or artistic work and if you meet the following conditions: Justify resources at least equal to 70% full-time gross minimum wage per month of stay in France, or €1,306.91 of which at least 51% coming from your activity as a performer or author of a literary or artistic work If you are employed: have one or more employment contracts for a total cumulative period of 3 months or more over a period of 12 months, concluded with one or more companies or establishments whose main activity is the creation or exploitation of works of the mind. 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." On arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Proofs of resources at least equal to 70% from Smic : titleContent full-time gross per month of stay in France, or €1,306.91 of which at least 51% from your activity as a performer or author of a literary or artistic work (employment contract, employment contract, artistic commission, contract with a gallery, copyright, payment of a scholarship, grant from the country of origin, collection of an annuity, rent, retirement, etc.) Evidence that the employment contract(s) concluded with companies engaged in an artistic activity have a cumulative total term of at least 3 months over a period of 12 months only for an employed activity Documents justifying that you are a performer or author of literary or artistic works Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the Internet at earlier than 4 months and no later than 2 months before the expiry of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement If the prefect has notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Person of national or international renown The residence card ' national or international renowned talent » authorizes you to stay in France. It authorizes you to pursue any professional activity as an employed and/or self-employed person. In the course of your paid employment, your employer does not have to apply for a work permit and is exempt from paying the foreigner employment tax. We present you the steps of the process to make the card application. 1 Check if you meet the conditions You can obtain a residence card " national or international renowned talent » if your national or international reputation is established or if you can participate significantly and sustainably in the economic development, regional planning or influence of France. You must come to France to work in a field: scientific, literary, artistic, intellectual, educational, sporting. You must justify resources at least equal to Smic : titleContent gross annual, or €22,404.20 2 Check the steps to be taken The procedures differ if you live abroad or in France: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad You must submit your visa application to the french consular authorities in your country of residence. Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) If the duration of your stay is less than 12 months , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa as a residence permit bearing the words "talent." Upon arrival in France, you must have your long-stay visa valid as a residence permit validated on the internet within 3 months. Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF If the duration of your stay is equal to or greater than 1 year , the consulate shall issue you with a long-stay visa bearing the words "talent" of a duration of 3 months. You must apply for a residence card on the internet: Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You live in France You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet within 2 months following your entry into France, if you hold a long-stay visa : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF You must submit your application for a residence permit on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document if you hold a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or a residence permit : Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF 3 Prepare the documents to be provided Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) or consular certificate with photo or photo ID card or consular card with photo or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Proof of resources greater than or equal to Smic : titleContent for a full time Any document likely to establish your national or international reputation in the chosen field or your ability to participate in a significant and sustainable way in the economic development, regional planning or the influence of France in this field Any document establishing the nature, purpose and duration of your project in France Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 4 Do the process on the internet You must submit your application on the internet not earlier than 4 months and not later than 2 months before the expiry of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 5 Be informed by the prefecture of the validation of the residence card The prefecture confirms the availability of your residence card and the amount of the tax. 6 Buy the tax stamp If the residence card is assigned to you, you must pay €350 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €300 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of stamp duty and tax is requested when the card is handed over. You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco shop. On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can buy the tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 7 Go and get the residence card once it is available Delivery of the card by the prefecture The card is given to you by the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. In most prefectures, you need to make an appointment. Find out more on the prefecture's website. The card is valid for the same period as the employment contract, up to a maximum of 4 years. Stay of your family Your spouse and minor children can benefit from the simplified procedure accompanying family and obtain a residence card " talent-family » without going through the application for family reunification. Your spouse and minor children receive a multi-annual residence card « Talent-family » . 8 Dispute in case of refusal The deadlines for contesting are different depending on whether or not you have received a response from the prefecture: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months , it is an implicit refusal. You can then file the following appeals within 2 months of this refusal: Administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or litigation before the administrative court . Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Administrative information by telephone - Allô Service Public accès For more information on this subject, you can contact Allô Service Public. Please note: the service does not have access to users' personal files and cannot therefore provide information on their progress. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Statute and miscellaneous references Code of Entry and Residence of foreigners and Right of Asylum: Articles L421-7 to L421-25 Issuance of the residence card "talent" Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R421-11 to R421-37 Instruction of the application for a residence card "talent" Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-1 to L436-13 Taxes and stamp duty payable Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-10 to L436-13 Tax due by the employer Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L432-1 to L432-15 Refusal and withdrawal of the residence card Code of Entry and Residence of foreigners and Right of Asylum: Articles R432-1 to R432-15 Refusal and withdrawal of the residence card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R433-1 to 433-6 Renewal of the residence card Intellectual Property Code: Articles L112-1 to L112-4 Artist: definition of works of the mind (article L112-2) Order of 21 August 2025 on the amount of the annual average gross reference salary for the issue of the multiannual residence card bearing the mention « qualified talent-employee » and the multiannual residence card bearing the mention « European Blue Card » Amount of annual average gross salary reference Order of 1 April 2021 establishing the list of documents to be provided in order to obtain a work authorization Documents completed by the employer Order of 28 October 2016 on the documents to be produced for the application for the temporary or multiannual residence card "entrepreneur/liberal profession" or multiannual "talent passport" Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Article R421-11 Code of Entry and Residence of foreigners and Right to Asylum: Annex 10 List of parts to be supplied Online services and forms Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF Online service Application for mobility in France from a researcher authorized to stay in Europe Form Elements of the employment contract to apply for a residence card - Talent (innovative company) Form Elements of the employment contract justifying an application for a multi-annual Talent residence card "European Blue Card" Form Elements of the employment contract justifying an application for a residence card Talent "employee on mission" Form Elements of the employment contract(s) justifying the application for a Talent residence card "Artistic and cultural profession" Form FAQ Which photo to provide for an identity document (passport, identity card...)? Application for a residence card: what proof of address? Translation of a document: how to find a certified translator? Foreigner in France: how to buy a tax stamp? Foreigners student: how to work in France after your studies? How to get the quality of craftsman? Can a foreigner set up a company in France? Additional topics 1 year residency certificate for Algerian Service Public Residence card of an EU/EEA/Swiss citizen working in France Service Public Multi-year residence card "talent-family" Service Public Welcome to France: personalized information for your installation in France Business France Smic : Inter-professional minimum wage for growth Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden DEA, DESS, engineering degree, institute of political studies degree, higher degree of accounting and management, accounting degree, state diplomas of veterinary doctor, doctor of medicine, dental surgery, pharmacy, ... Activity whose exercise is subject to diploma or other qualification conditions: crafts, pharmacy, transport, real estate agencies Formality by which a procedural act or decision is brought to the attention of a person Acronym for Company Directory Identification System . The Siren number is the unique identifier of a company, made up of 9 digits. Smic : Inter-professional minimum wage for growth Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
