Long-stay visa (stay of more than 3 months to 1 year) | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Entry of a foreigner in France Long-stay visa (stay of more than 3 months to 1 year) This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Long-stay visa (stay of more than 3 months to 1 year) Verified 28 March 2024 - Directorate for Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) To enter and stay in France for more than 3 months, a foreigner must hold a long-stay visa ( type D ). This visa is granted by the French consular authorities. It is issued most often for education, work or family reasons. What are the types of long-stay visas? How to apply for a long-stay visa? What's the cost? We are taking stock of the regulations. Unfold all What is a long-stay visa? A visa is a sticker affixed by a country's administration to a person's passport to allow him or her to enter and stay for a specified period of time. You you don't need of this document if you are a citizen European , Andorran, Monaco, San Marino, Holy See/Vatican . The long-stay visa, type D , allows you to enter and stay in France 4 months to 1 year . It also allows you to move around (without any other visa) in the whole area Schengen , provided that not to exceed 90 days during its period of validity. If you are an adult, you must apply for a long-stay visa even if your nationality does not require a short-stay visa. Please note The visa shall not be issued in the following cases: a foreigner who has been under an obligation to leave France for less than five years and who does not provide proof that he has left France within the period granted, except in humanitarian circumstances Nationals of states that do not cooperate sufficiently in readmission, except for spouses of French nationals Foreigner who has been subject to a judicial prohibition of entry, an expulsion order, a prohibition on return to French territory, a prohibition on movement within French territory or an administrative prohibition on entry What are the different types of long-stay visas? There are different types of visas depending on the reason and length of your stay and your intention to settle you in France. Long-stay visa as residence permit (VLS-TS): valid for 4 to 12 months This visa, says VLS-TS , is valid as a residence permit and you do not need to apply for a residence card in the prefecture as soon as you arrive in France. This applies in particular to the following cases: Student Employee (holder of a contract of indefinite duration) Husband of French Talents Residence Card FYI If you are married to a Frenchman, the VLS-TS is issued to you without conditions. It may be refused if your marriage is fraudulent or has been canceled or if you pose a threat to public order. VLS-TS Validation Within 3 months of your arrival in France, you must validate your VLS-TS and pay a tax in addition to the visa fee. The Internet approach makes it possible to be in regular stay and to be able to cross the border again from the Schengen area . Validate a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) and pay the tax Visa mention "residence card to be requested within 2 months of arrival" The endorsement shall bear the residence card to be requested within 2 months of arrival . It allows you to enter France and obtain a residence card in the prefecture. It is given to you in order to benefit from a residence card (annual, multiannual or 10 years depending on your situation), in particular in the following cases: Family of French (child aged 16 to 21 or dependent of a French, ascendant dependent on a Frenchman and his husband) Professional or independent (tradesman, craftsman, etc.) Worker (employee on assignment, EU Blue Card, seasonal, talent passport) or worker family Retired or retired spouse Artist Working holiday visa This visa can only be issued to you if your country is bound by a bilateral "working holiday" agreement with France . It may also be issued without bilateral agreement for Taiwanese nationals. The duration is set at a maximum of 1 year. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond this date, but there may be exceptions provided for in the agreements. The regulations vary according to the nationality of the foreigner. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Argentina This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 35 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and waives the need to apply for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period. You cannot apply for a residence card for any other reason, but there is an exception if you meet the conditions for issuing a multi-year residence card "talent passport". The application for a “talent passport” must be made 3 months before the end date of your “Working Holiday” visa. Australia This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 35 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and waives the need to apply for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Brazil This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Canada This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 35 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and waives the need to apply for a residence card. The length of stay can be up to 24 months. In some specific cases, it may be up to 36 months: Students wishing to complete part of their university course in a French institution under an interuniversity agreement Students or young people in training, enrolled in an educational establishment or training center, wishing to complete a practical internship. Chile This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. China (Hong Kong) This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Colombia This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. South Korea This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Ecuador This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Japan This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Mexico This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. New Zealand This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Peru This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Russia This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Taiwan This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Uruguay This visa is intended for young people from 18 to 30 years . It has a maximum duration of 12 months and you do not need to ask for a residence card. You will not be able to extend your stay beyond the authorized period, nor ask for a residence card for any other reason. Minor visa in France: valid for 11 months maximum You can benefit from this visa if you meet the following conditions: Under 18 Follow your education or studies in France for more than 3 months Residence of parents abroad This visa allows you to enter France as many times as you want during its period of validity, without having to apply for a new visa. Please note If you're a minor, you don't have to detain residence card. Temporary long-stay visa: valid for 4 to 6 months This visa lasts between 4 and 6 months maximum. It is worth a temporary authorization to stay in France. It can be issued to you if you come to France in one of the following cases: Take a short education Perform an artistic activity Visitor (you must be able to live off your own resources) During the validity of your visa, you are exempt from applying for a residence card in the prefecture. At the end, you have to go back to your country of origin. What documents should be provided to apply for a long-stay visa? The long-stay visa allows you to settle in France. The documents to be presented vary according to the reason for your stay: as employee, student, family of Frenchman or a foreigner regularly settled in France, etc. You must consult the France-Visas portal to know, depending on your situation, the list of documents to be provided. France-Visas - Visa Assistants - List of documents to be supplied How to apply for a long-stay visa? General case Student General case Where to apply? You must submit your visa application (no more than 3 months before departure planned) with the French consular authorities of the country where you live: Apply for a visa Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) Validity of the passport Your passport must be valid at least 3 months after your visa ends . It must include at least 2 blank pages . It must have been issued since then under 10 years . Student In general, you must apply for a visa (no more than 3 months) before departure planned) with the French consular authorities of the country where you live: Apply for a visa Who shall I contact Visa department (French embassy/consulate abroad) But beware: Foreigners from 68 countries must apply for a visa on the Studies in France at the time of online pre-enrollment in French higher education. Tableau - Student visa application procedure by country of large regional areas Regional area Nationality Application procedure Africa South Africa Benin Studies in France Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Comoros Congo Brazzaville Côte d'Ivoire Djibouti Ethiopia Gabon Ghana Guinea Kenya Madagascar Mali Mauritius Mauritania Niger Nigeria Democratic Republic of Congo Senegal Chad Togo Other country Apply for a visa Asia / Oceania Cambodia Studies in France China South Korea India Indonesia Japan Malaysia Nepal Pakistan Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Other country Apply for a visa Europe Azerbaijan Studies in France Georgia United Kingdom Russia Turkey Ukraine Other country Apply for a visa America Argentina Studies in France Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Ecuador United States Haiti Mexico Peru Dominican Republic Other country Apply for a visa North Africa / Middle East Algeria Studies in France Saudi Arabia Barhein Egypt United Arab Emirates Iran Israel Jordan Kuwait Lebanon Morocco Qatar Tunisia Other country Apply for a visa The request is made on the site Studies in France at the time of online pre-enrollment in french higher education: Enrollment in French higher education / application for a student visa procedure "Studies in France" Recording of the applicant's data Your biometric data is stored in a file, called Visabio . This data is the scanned images of the following information: Photo ID Fingerprints (except children under 12 years) You cannot object to this registration (you have a right of access and rectification to the file ). What is the cost of the long-stay visa? The amount of the visa fee varies. It is expressed in euros or CFA francs, depending on the country. To find out, you should see Rate country pages of the France-Visas Assistant. France-Visas - Cost of visa according to country However, some applicants are exempt from visa fees, including: Husband of French Non-European family member of a European (other than French) or Swiss Seasonal worker Turkish, Serbian or Montenegrin wage earner and his family reunited with their families French teacher Foreign Language Assistant or Reader Some working holiday visa recipients Holder of a diplomatic or service passport Scholarship student from the French government or a foreigners government or a foreign foundation Guest from an intergovernmental organization based in France Veteran with a free care notebook coming to France for medical treatment What remedy should a visa be refused? Grounds for refusal of visa Any refusal to grant a visa must state the reasons for the refusal. Appeal against refusal of visa In case of refusal of your visa application, you can form a ex gratia appeal to the consulate asking it to review its decision. Who shall I contact French Embassy or Consulate Abroad You can also appeal to the Board of Appeal against decisions refusing entry visas to France (CRRV). Who shall I contact Board of Appeal against Decisions Refusing Entry Visas to France (CRRV) This remedy is obligatory before any appeal to the administrative judge. It is imperative that you present it in 30 days next: Either the notification of the written refusal Implicit refusal of your visa application (if the consulate has not replied to you within 2 months) You must give reasons for your appeal (set out the legal and factual elements). You must write it in French, sign it and attach any useful documents. The VAC can be referred by you, your lawyer, or anyone with an interest in challenging the visa refusal (for example, a family member). The VAC may: Dismiss your appeal (if no reply is received within 2 months, this is an implied rejection) Or recommend to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior to grant you the visa Please note If your appeal is manifestly inadmissible or unfounded, the Chairperson of the VRC may dismiss your appeal on his or her own, without convening the VRC. If the VAC rejects your appeal, or if the ministers confirm the visa refusal despite the VAC's favorable opinion, you can file an appeal for cancelation within 2 months. This appeal must be lodged with the Administrative Court of Nantes. Who shall I contact Administrative Court of Nantes Can a long-stay visa be revoked? Your long-stay visa as a residence permit may be revoked by the Prefect for one of the following 3 reasons: Obtaining your visa fraudulently Entry to France for an installation for purposes other than the issuing of your visa Disturbing public order The prefect responsible for deciding whether to revoke your visa is the one where you are staying or the one where you have been checked. You may appeal the decision to repeal one ex gratia appeal to the prefect and/or a hierarchical appeal to the minister of the interior . Who shall I contact Prefecture Paris Police Department Directorate of Immigration - Ministry in charge of the Interior You can also refer a case to the administrative judge action for annulment in the following cases: Administrative appeals have not been successful Or directly without going through those administrative remedies Who shall I contact Administrative Tribunal What to do at the end of the long-stay visa? If you wish stay in France , you must file a application for a residence card within 2 months before the end of your visa to the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home. Find out more on your prefecture's website. Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Telephone administrative information - Allo Public Service accès For more information on this topic, you can contact Allô Service Public. Attention: the service does not have access to users' personal files and cannot therefore provide information on their status. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Statute and miscellaneous references Code of entry and residence of foreigners and right of asylum: Article L312-2 Principle of long-stay visa in CESEDA Code of entry and residence of foreigners and right of asylum: Articles L412-1 to L412-4 Requirement to present, with exceptions, a long-stay visa in order to obtain a temporary residence card Code of entry and residence of foreigners and right of asylum: Articles L423-7 to L423-11 Mandatory long-stay visa for issuing residence card to the ascendant of French: article L423-11 Code of entry and residence of foreigners and right of asylum: Article L423-12 Long-stay visa required for the issuance of the residence card to the child of French Code of relations between the public and the administration: Articles L211-5 to L211-6 Reasons for decisions Code of relations between the public and the administration: Articles L211-2 to L211-4 Reasons for decisions/detailed rules Code of entry and residence of foreigners and right of asylum: Articles R431-1 to R431-24 Long-stay visa as residence permit and temporary long-stay visa Decree No. 81-778 of 13 August 1981 fixing the tariff of fees to be collected in diplomatic and consular chancelleries and, in France, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Cost (table of fees: Article 18 B.1 B2. B3. B4.) Online services and forms Application for a visa for a long stay in France (paper format) Form Additional topics France-Visas Ministry of the Interior The steps of applying for a visa Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs Working holiday visa Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs Countries concerned by the online registration procedure "Studies in France" Agence Campus France Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland Situation of a foreigner in possession of documents authorizing him to remain in France Person of origin (parent, grandparent, great-grandparent...) Abolition for the future of an administrative act or a rule of law Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
