What is Universal Health Protection (Puma)? | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Social - Health Affiliation to social security (health insurance) What is Universal Health Protection (Puma)? This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. What is Universal Health Protection (Puma)? Verified 13 May 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Financial contribution for some Puma beneficiaries The Law of 30 December 2025 on the financing of Social Security for 2026 provides for the introduction of a financial contribution for Puma beneficiaries who fulfill three conditions: Reside in France in a stable and regular Being without professional activity Not be liable for the CSG : titleContent , the CRDS : titleContent and health insurance contributions under an international convention. A decree is expected to be issued on the amount of this financial contribution. An update of this page will be made when the decree is published. In the meantime, the information presented on this page remains valid. Universal health protection (Puma) allows health care costs to be covered without disruption of rights. This means that this care is provided even in the event of a change in professional, family or residence situation. To qualify for the Puma, you must work or reside in France on a stable or regular basis. We present you the information to know. Unfold all What is the objective of the Puma? If you work or reside in France on a stable and regular basis , the Puma guarantees you a right to cover your health costs, in your personal capacity and on an ongoing basis throughout your life. The Puma also allows you to stay in the same health insurance plan, including in the event of a change in employment status (e.g. loss of employment) or personal status (e.g. separation). Any periods of breach of your rights are thus avoided. Who is affected by the Puma? You are affected by the Puma if you work or reside in France on a stable and regular basis. Unlike a minor, if you are of age, there is no need to be attached to an insured person. Major Minor Major You are of full age without professional activity, you have the right to be covered by your health care costs in a personal capacity. There is no need to be attached to a qualifying insured. Indeed, an adult can no longer be entitled since the establishment of the Puma. You are insured individually as soon as you reach the age of majority. You can choose to: Collect refunds on your own bank account Receive your own refund statement Have your own Ameli account. Thus, you benefit from a better confidentiality of the information on the health costs covered. Minor If you are a minor, you continue to have the status of a right holder. In practice, you are attached to one of your parents. However, it is possible to apply for Puma in a personal capacity from the age of 16. FYI This status of right holder ends the year you turn 18 . What are the conditions related to residence in France to have Puma? There are 2 conditions related to the regularity of the residence and the stability of the residence. These 2 conditions are cumulative . Regularity of residence By being national of the European Economic Area and Switzerland , you have the right to move and reside freely in France. An ID or passport is enough. However, if you are a national of another country, you must have a residence permit or document. Stability of the residence This criterion will depend on whether or not you are working: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Exercise of a professional activity If you work and your Puma application is accepted, you are immediately enrolled in the Health Insurance. Without the exercise of a professional activity Once in France, you must wait 3 months before seeing your rights open. These rights remain open if you live in France for at least 6 months of the year. Warning This condition of stability of the residence (3 months) is met without delay for some people. Examples: refugees, people returning to France after a international volunteering abroad , persons who perceive the Disabled Adult Allowance (DAA) , or Supplementary Disability Allowance (Asi) . How to get the Puma? To make your application for entitlement, you must first complete a form: Application to open the rights to the Health Insurance Please note Any person who deliberately refuses affiliate or who insists not to engage the steps for his compulsory affiliation to a social security scheme is punishable by imprisonment of 6 months and a fine of €15,000 (or only one of these penalties). Can the Puma be removed? Yes, the Puma can be withdrawn if you no longer meet the conditions of stability of residence or regularity of stay. Thus, for example, you must spontaneously declare your departure abroad. To do this, you complete this form. Declaration of transfer of residence outside France Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 If you fall under the general regime Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM) If you fall under the farm plan Agricultural Social Mutuality (MSA) Statute and miscellaneous references Social Security Code: Articles L160-1 to L160-7 Puma Social Security Code: Articles R111-1 to R111-4 Conditions of residence Social Security Code: Article L162-1-12-1 Individualized information for young people on health insurance Order of 10 May 2017 establishing the list of residence permits provided for in I of Article R111-3 of the Social Security Code Online services and forms Application to open the rights to the Health Insurance Formulaire Declaration of transfer of residence outside France Formulaire FAQ Social security: how can a foreigner prove that he is in a legal situation in France? Additional topics Complementary health solidarity (ex-CMU-C) Service Public Attachment of a minor as the beneficiary of a social insured person Service Public Social security of a student Service Public Universal Health Protection (PUMa) National Health Insurance Fund (Cnam) CSG : Generalized social contribution CRDS : Contribution for the repayment of social debt Residence in France continuously for more than 3 months Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland CSG : Generalized social contribution CRDS : Contribution for the repayment of social debt Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
