What is the Republican Integration Contract (RIC)? | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Titles, residence cards and travel documents for foreigner in France What is the Republican Integration Contract (RIC)? This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. What is the Republican Integration Contract (RIC)? Verified 01 January 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) The Republican Integration Contract (CIR) is part of the personalized journey of republican integration of the non-European foreigners national admitted to stay in France and wishing to settle there permanently. It is concluded between the foreigner of France and the signatory State which undertakes to follow the training prescribed to it to promote its integration into the business of France. The CIR includes language and civic training that allows foreigners to meet the language level and the mandatory civic examination since 1 er January 2026 if he wishes to obtain a resident card or a multi-year residence card. We present you the information to know. Unfold all Who should conclude a Republican integration contract? You are concerned if you have a temporary or multi-year residence card. But there are exceptions. Tableau - Obligation to sign the Republican Integration Contract (CIR) according to the residence permit Residence permit Signature of the EIF Residence card private and family life Foreigner born in France with continuous residence in France for at least 8 years + schooling for at least 5 years after the age of 10 in a French institution No Title obtained for health reasons No Ascendant and descendant of French No Other case Yes Certificate of residence for Algerian Yes, on proposal Resident Card except residence card granted to the legionnaire Yes EU long-term resident card Yes Long-stay visa as a residence permit employee Yes Residence card visitor No Residence card student No Temporary residence card Au pair No Residence card to practice a commercial, industrial or craft profession Yes Residence card intern No Residence card temporary worker No Residence card talent / talent (family) No Residence card seasonal worker No Residence card ICT posted employee / ICT seconded employee (family) / ICT mobile seconded employee / mobile ICT seconded employee (family) No Residence card for foreigners benefiting from international protection Refugee - Family member of a refugee Yes Subsidiary protection - Family member of a beneficiary of subsidiary protection Yes Stateless - Family member of a stateless person Yes You are dispensed of the CIR if you are in one the following situations: Education in a French secondary school for at least 3 school years Graduate studies in France for at least 1 academic year Be between 16 and 18 years of age and be able to obtain a 10-year resident card. Warning This procedure does not concern a foreigner who is a national of european countries or the members of his family living in France with him. When do we sign a Republican integration contract? The CIR is signed when you are admitted for the 1 re times to stay in France and you want to settle there long-term . The CIR is prepared by the Ofii : titleContent following a typical model. The contract is presented to you with its translation into a language you understand. At the end of the interview with an auditor of Ofii : titleContent , you must sign the contract (and your legal representative if you are a minor). You agree to participate in mandatory civic training and possibly language training. The contract is also signed, on behalf of the French State, by the Prefect. If you did not sign a CIR when you entered French territory, you can ask to sign it voluntarily. You must contact the local Ofii office of your place of residence. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration (Ofii) How does the individual and personalized interview take place in the context of a republican integration contract? During the personalized interview, the Ofii : titleContent introduces you to the republican integration contract with its translation into a language you understand. The interview with an Ofii auditor allows you to inform and of you orient to local services adapted to your situation and needs. You are also subject to a test of knowledge of french (written and oral) to assess your level. If you achieve results below A2 level, you can register for language training at Ofii prescribed under the Republican Integration Contract. What commitments are made by signing a Republican integration contract? The Republican Integration Contract (CIR) is concluded, for a period of 1 year , between the French State and you. It can be extended in some cases for up to 1 year. It is based on reciprocal commitments. By signing it, you agree to Follow regularly and seriously the prescribed training Respond to the invitations of the Ofii : titleContent Carry out the steps indicated by the Ofii : titleContent and respond to requests from different operators (employment or other). Report to Ofii : titleContent any change of situation and contact details If you are a parent: provide your child with an education that respects the principles of the Republic and accompany him in his integration efforts. The CIR is there 1 re step of your integration pathway in France which includes the following actions: Civic training on the values, principles and institutions of the Republic, on the rights and duties associated with life in France as well as on the organization of the French business, the history and culture of the French business Language training Career guidance advice and support to promote your professional integration Support adapted to your needs to facilitate your reception and integration conditions. What are the formations of the Republican Integration Contract? The Republican integration contract includes two courses: language training and civic training. Language training The assessment of your written and oral comprehension and expression skills is carried out during your reception at the Ofii : titleContent The language training is you proposed if you have achieved results less than level A2 the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) in the test of written and oral comprehension and expression. The language training lasts 600 hours. You can also take this training on an online learning platform. If you accept it, this training is mentioned in the CIR and therefore becomes mandatory. Please note You are exempt from the competency assessment if you hold one of the following degrees or language tests: Diploma attesting to a level of knowledge of French at least equivalent to level A2 of CEFR : titleContent Diploma awarded by a French authority, in France or abroad, attesting a level at least equal to level 3 of the national framework of professional qualifications and the national diploma of the patent Secure language test or certificate of less than 2 years issued by a nationally or internationally recognized certifying body, which certifies and validates the proficiency in written and oral skills of at least level A2 of CEFR : titleContent . At the end of the training, the training organization gives you a certificate of attendance stating the number of hours completed and the results obtained on the initial and final evaluation tests. If you are an employee allophone signatory to an EIF: Your employer may offer you, as part of the skills development plan , training to help you reach the level A2 of CEFR : titleContent . Such training shall be equivalent to actual working time (with maintenance of pay) up to a maximum of 80 hours. You can also benefit from leave to follow, on your Personal Training Account (PTA) , training courses to help you reach the A2 level of the CEFR : titleContent . Warning Since 1 January 2026, foreigners nationals who apply a first multiannual residence permit or a first residence card must have a command of the French language, level B1 for resident cards, level A2 for multiannual residence cards. Civic Training and Civic Examination The civic education is mandatory and includes 4 sessions with a total duration of 24 hours. It covers the following topics: Principles and values of the Republic: motto, secularism and symbols Institutional and political system of France Rights and duties related to life in France History, geography and culture of France Life in the French business. At the end of this training, a civic exam including 40 multiple choice questions is to be passed. Passing this civic exam requires a score of at least 80%, or 32 correct answers . Please note In Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, Reunion, Mayotte and Saint-Pierre and Miquelon, civic education includes a component relating to the history and geography of the department and the overseas region of your residence. In Mayotte, civic training consists of two sessions lasting a total of 12 hours. Warning Since 1 January 2026, successful completion of this civic examination is required for access to a multi-year residence card or a resident card . There are 2 levels of difficulty of the civic examination, one level for access to a multi-year residence card and another for access to a resident card. The Ministry of the Interior has set up a website dedicated to civic examination on which you can find information about this test, including: Official list of knowledge questions, Agencies approved by the Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of civic examination. What is the duration of a Republican integration contract? Initial contract The CIR is concluded for a period of 1 year. The contract is fulfilled if the following 2 conditions are met: Follow-up of the training prescribed there with diligence and seriousness No sign of rejection of the core values of the French business and the Republic. Extension The contract may be extended for a maximum of one year by the prefect for a legitimate reason and on the proposal of the Ofii : titleContent if the prescribed and followed civic and linguistic training is being carried out at the end of the contract and you are in regular residence. The reason for and duration of the extension is stated in the contract. Should we have an interview at the end of a Republican integration contract? Within 6 months after the start of the training, the Ofii : titleContent invite you to a follow-up interview to take stock of the training followed. The Ofii agent brings you new information on the offer of local services that can facilitate the continuation of your integration journey. He can refer you to France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) or a local mission to benefit from an in-depth interview in professional guidance and support promoting your professional integration. Please note If you have complied with the CIR and the core values of the businesses and the Republic and passed the “CSP” civic examination, the prefect may, when renewing your 1-year temporary residence permit, issue you a multi-year card (valid for 2 to 4 years). If you do not wish to receive career counseling or support to promote your professional integration, you must apply for a waiver. What are the consequences in the event of non-compliance with a Republican integration contract? The prefect may terminate the contract on a proposal from the Ofii : titleContent when they find that you are in one of the following situations: Failure to attend prescribed training and you have no legitimate reason Non-compliance with EIF commitments. The prefect must inform you of his intention to terminate the contract. It must state the reasons for the planned termination and specify the consequences for the issue of the multi-annual residence card. The closure of your CIR for non-compliance with obligations has consequences on your right to stay Renewal of your annual residence permit : you will not be able to obtain a multi-year residence permit and will be affected by the limit of 3 renewals of your permit Access to a multiannual title : you will not be able to obtain a multi-year residence permit when your temporary card expires. Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative information by phone - Allô Service Public accès For more information on this subject, you can contact Allô Service Public. Attention: the service does not have access to users' personal files and therefore cannot provide information on their progress. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration (Ofii) Statute and miscellaneous references Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L413-1 to L413-6 Provisions on integration into the French business Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L433-1 to L433-3-1 Conditions for renewal of residence permits (legislative part) Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Article L433-7 General provisions on the resident card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R413-2 to R413-7 Provisions on integration into the French business Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Article R413-15 Assessment of the integration condition for the resident card Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R433-1 to R433-3 (regulatory part) Conditions for renewal of residence permits (regulatory part) Labor Code: Article L6321-1 Employer Obligations and Skills Development Plan Labor Code: Articles L6323-16 to L6323-17-6 Mobilization of the personal training account Education Code: Articles D338-23 to D338-32 Initial degree in French language Order of 22 July 2025 on the civic and linguistic training prescribed to the foreigners signing the Republican Integration Contract Civic and linguistic training Order of 30/12/2025 laying down the procedures for the organization of tests and exemption from the production of diplomas, certifications or attestations as provided for in the second paragraph of 2° of Article R. 413-15 and in the fourth paragraph of Article R. 433-5 of the Code of the entry and stay of foreigners and the right of asylum Dispensation and accommodation of tests for language level and civic examination Order of 22 July 2025 on the standard model of the Republican integration contract CIR Template Order of 22 July 2025 on the model of a republican integration contract specific to Mayotte Model of CIR Mayotte Order of 20 August 2025 on the procedure for the approval of bodies responsible for implementing the civic examination Accreditation of bodies responsible for the implementation of civic examination Order of 10 October 2025 on the program, tests and organization of the civic examination program, tests and organization of the civic examination Additional topics The Republican Integration Contract Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration (Ofii) Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) Council of Europe Council of Europe Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration CEFR : Common European Framework of Reference for Languages Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland A person whose mother tongue is different from that of the country in which he or she is Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration CEFR : Common European Framework of Reference for Languages Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
