Salaried employment - France-Visas Skip to Main Content Content Menu Search Footer Gouvernement Rechercher Menu France-Visas Le site officiel des visas pour la France Frequently Asked Questions Follow an application EN - English FR - Français EN - English ES - Español ZH - 中文 AR - العربية RU - Русский Close Rechercher Rechercher Close Get informed The approach Short-stay visa Long-stay visa Airport Transit Visa France in the Schengen area Your arrival in France My situation Close Coming to France for … Find all the information according to your reason for stay. Tourism and private stay Young travellers Tourist stay of less than 3 months Tourist stay of more than 3 months Stay for medical care Volunteering Professional purpose Salaried employment Self employed person or liberal activity Young employees Job Search / Business Creation International talents Business travel Study or training Student Young "au pair" School-going minor Student trainee Family purpose Adoption Family of French national Family of european national Family of foreign national residing in France Visa application News Home Professional purpose Salaried employment Under this heading Title of heading Tourism and private stay Young travellers Tourist stay of less than 3 months Tourist stay of more than 3 months Stay for medical care Volunteering Professional purpose Salaried employment Self employed person or liberal activity Young employees Job Search / Business Creation International talents Business travel Study or training Student Young "au pair" School-going minor Student trainee Family purpose Adoption Family of French national Family of european national Family of foreign national residing in France Salaried employment Posting paid employees and internal transfers Posting to provide services in France Your situation Your employer, operating outside the European Economic Area, asks you to fulfil your employment contract by completing a one-off mission in a French company (or organisation) in order to provide a service to a French client or on its behalf. Requirement to obtain prior authorisation to work Your employer or the French company benefiting from this service must obtain a work permit from the French authorities . This prior authorisation is not necessary if, during your secondment/posting (of a duration less than or equal to 90 days), you are performing : An audit or expert assessment in the field of IT, management, finance, insurance, architecture and engineering A teaching activity (on an occasional basis) as a salaried guest teacher Your visa If your mission or service obligation does not exceed 90 days , you will be issued with a short-stay visa equivalent to the length of the posting declared by your employee. You must leave France before the expiry date shown on your visa. If your mission or service obligation exceeds 90 days , you will be issued with a long-stay visa bearing the statement "travailleur temporaire" (temporary worker). You must validate it within three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation Along with your visa application, you must also submit the work permit that was granted to your employer. Details about the supporting documents related to your personal situation and your professional qualifications are given in the visa wizard . Attention : Unless exempt from obtaining a work permit, you must prove that the missions and temporary activities you will perform in France are exempt and are related to the functions you carry out in your company in your country. Posting or recruitment by a French company that belongs to the same international group Your situation For at least three months you have been employed in a company located outside the European Economic Area that belongs to an international group of companies. Your employer has asked you to carry out an expert assessment or follow a training course in a French company or organisation belonging to the same group. Requirement to obtain prior authorisation to work Your employer or the manager of the French company in the group hosting you must obtain this work permit from the French authorities. Your visa You will be issued with a short-stay visa which covers the duration of your mission (90 days maximum). You must leave France before the expiry date shown on your visa You will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement " travailleur temporaire " (temporary worker), which will allow you to stay in France for between three and twelve months. You must validate it in the three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation Along with your visa application, you must also submit the work permit that was granted to your employer. The supporting documents you will need to submit about your personal and professional situation are given in the visa wizard . Internal transfers –ICT– to carry out a senior management assignment or an assignment involving high-level expertise or a work placement Your situation For at least three months you have been employed in a company located outside the European Economic Area that belongs to an international group of companies. You carry out higher management functions and your employer has asked you to carry out a high level senior management or expert assessment mission. You hold a higher education qualification and your employer has asked you to follow a training course in a group company or entity. This training session is designed so that you can develop as a professional or gain the methods and techniques required by companies. Your visa For a mission of over 12 months : You will be granted a long-stay visa bearing the statement " salarié détaché ICT " (ICT posted employee), which is valid for three years; this period of validity commences on the date of your arrival in France. In the two months following your arrival in France, you must apply for a multi-year residence permit at your local prefecture. For a mission not exceeding 12 months or a training course that must not exceed 12 months : You will be granted a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement " stagiaire ICT " (ICT trainee). You must validate it within the three months following your arrival in France. Making your stay easier for you and your family Your family may accompany you i.e. your spouse and your children entering their 18th year. They must apply for a visa in order to obtain a multi-year or temporary residence permit bearing the statement " salarié détaché ICT " (ICT posted employee) or " stagiaire ICT " (ICT trainee). The issued permit will have the same duration as your residence permit and will authorise your family members to work. Your supporting documentation Your employer and the head of the company. where you will carry out your senior management or expert assessment mission must give details in form 15619*01 about the conditions of your employment contract. This form will be accompanied by documents about your employer’s situation. An internship contract provided by your employer and signed by both you and the employer, should be provided. You must submit these forms and documents with your visa application and any supporting documents about your personal and professional situation as explained in the visa wizard . Recruitment of employees and seasonal workers Short- or long-term recruitment Your situation Your employment contract will be either a fixed-term or a permanent contract. Your employer can be a private employer (a domestic job), a company or another type of organisation. Requirement to obtain prior authorisation to work Any employer or company operating in France wishing to recruit you must first request authorisation from the French authorities . Your employer is exempt from this obligation, if your employment contract does not exceed or is equal to 90 days and concerns : Sporting, cultural, artistic or scientific events Conferences, seminars or trade fairs The production and distribution of cinematographic or audio-visual performances or music publishing for artists and technicians directly involved in production and realization Providing teaching activities, on an occasional basis, by visiting salaried teachers in France Providing your employer’s services (not companies) during your stay in France This exemption also applies to modelling and artistic posing activities. If you are represented by a modelling agency, it must complete form agreement for collaborating with a foreign model . Your visa Your visa will reflect the duration of your stay in France and the nature of your employment contract : A short-stay visa with a maximum validity period of 180 days with a consecutive presence (or not) equal to at least 90 days A long-stay visa equivalent to a 12-month residence permit (maximum) : Bearing the statement " salarié " (employee) for a permanent employment contracts Bearing the statement " travailleur temporaire " (temporary worker) for fixed-term contracts You must validate it within the three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation Along with your visa application, you must also submit the work permit that was granted to your employer. If you are employed by a private individual, you must also submit the hiring form duly signed and completed by your employer . The required supporting documents related to your personal and professional situation are indicated in the visa wizard . Attention : if you are exempt from obtaining a work permit, you must prove that the missions and temporary activities you will be required to provide in France are exempt and are related to the functions that you carry out for your employer in your country. Seasonal worker Your situation You can be hired as a "travailleur saisonnier" ( seasonal worker ) i.e. a job linked to seasonal requirements such as tourism and agriculture. As a foreign employee, you are not permitted to work in France for more than six months in any twelve-month rolling year. You can have several employers; however, they will all have to request authorisation for you to work from the French authorities. Your visa As a seasonal worker, you will be issued a multi-year residence permit bearing the statement "travailleur saisonnier" (seasonal worker). A long-stay visa " travailleur saisonnier " (seasonal worker). In the two months following your arrival in France, you must visit your local prefecture to request a multi-year residence permit bearing the statement "travailleur saisonnier" (seasonal worker). For the following seasonal contracts, your employer must re-apply for a work permit. During the validity period of your multi-year residence permit, you will not need a visa to enter France and take up a new seasonal job but your new employer(s) must obtain a work permit for you which you will have to show at the border. Your supporting documentation Along with your visa application, you must also submit the work permit that was granted to your employer. Details about the supporting documents you will need to submit related to your personal and professional situation are given in the visa wizard . Teaching activities Language assistant Your situation You can be recruited as a language assistant in a public French educational establishment, at primary or secondary level. The duration of your contract must be at least 7 months. The following website has very useful information france-education-international.fr . Your visa You will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement "travailleur temporaire" ( temporary worker ). You must validate it within the three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation You will be able to apply for your visa once you have received your appointment order from the Rectorate, which you should enclose with your application. Foreign language reader / teacher / repeater Your situation You benefit from an international exchange between higher education institutions as a foreign language reader, teacher or tutor. You want to come to France to teach your language to children of immigrant origin in France, please check the conditions in the "Particular Situations" applicable to your country. Your visa If the duration of your employment contract exceeds three months, you will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement "travailleur temporaire" ( temporary worker ). You must validate it within three months following your arrival in France. If the duration of your employment contract is equal to or less than three months, you will be issued with a short-stay visa . Your supporting documentation You will be able to apply for your visa on presentation of any proof of recruitment by a higher education institution (attestation or employment contract). Model or assistant Cooperation with a French modelling agency Your situation If you are a model or part of a model’s technical support team (hairdresser, make-up artist, photographer, agent, etc.) and you have signed a cooperation agreement with a modelling agency with a French licence, you must submit your visa application along with the form regarding cooperation agreements for foreign models providing services in France , completed by your agency. Your visa If you are employed in France for three months or less, you will be issued with a short-stay visa (which is valid for up to 180 days and entitles you to be in France for a maximum of 90 consecutive or non-consecutive days). You do not need to apply for a work permit. If you are employed in France for more than three months, your modelling agency must apply for a work permit. You will be issued with a long-stay visa serving as a residence permit, which is valid for up to 12 months. For more information, please read the "short- or long-term recruitment" section. Your supporting documentation To find out which supporting documents you need to provide for your personal and professional situation, please use the visa wizard . Model or model’s assistant without an agreement with a French agency Your situation You have been hired directly by a French or foreign employer to work as a model or a model’s professional assistant (hairdresser, make-up artist, photographer, etc.). Your visa If you are employed in France for three months or less, you must provide evidence of the event(s), show(s), or photo session(s) in France, and your direct involvement in them (for example, an employment contract). You will be issued with a short-stay visa (which is valid for up to 180 days and entitles you to be in France for a maximum of 90 consecutive or non-consecutive days). You do not need to apply for a work permit. If you are employed in France for more than three months, you must submit an employment contract along with your application, and your employer must apply for a work permit. You will be issued with a long-stay visa serving as a residence permit, which is valid for up to 12 months. For more information, please read the "Short- or long-term recruitment" section. Your supporting documentation To find out which supporting documents you need to provide for your personal and professional situation, please use the visa wizard. In addition to evidence of your personal and professional situation as specified in the visa wizard, you must provide, for short stays, confirmation of the event in the form of an invitation (or contract) detailing the event type, date, place and organizer; and, for short and long stays, a contract (or accreditation for models under 18) and the modelling agency’s licence (for French modelling agencies). Other professions Medical profession Your situation Medical professions are regulated in France. To engage in any activities in these domains, you must meet the nationality and qualification conditions, and be registered on the professional order of physicians. Associate practitioner or contracted practitioner in a French public hospital You hold a degree in medicine obtained in a European Union member state You hold a qualification allowing you to practice in your country or in the country where you graduated, and you have obtained ministerial authorisation recognised by the Ministry of Health Upon your arrival in France, you must register on the professional order of physicians . Senior registrar or associate assistant You are a national of a country in a priority solidarity zone (ZSP) and you have been selected by the cultural service of the French Embassy and you are committed to returning to your country after one year of association. Obligations for heads of hospitals The head of a hospital who plans to recruit you, after having drawn up a certificate on your ability to practice in France, must first obtain a work permit from the French authorities . Your visa You will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement "travailleur temporaire" (temporary worker). Following your arrival in France and before starting to practice, you must register on the professional order of physicians . Certain facilities are in place for some nationalities, please consult your country’s "special situations". Your supporting documentation Along with your visa application, you must also submit the work permit that was granted to your employer. The required supporting documents related to your personal and professional situation are indicated in the visa wizard . Airline crew working for an airline Your situation You do not require a visa to circulate in an airport and in any neighbouring premises during your stopover. This exemption applies to current holders of an airline crew licence or a crew member certificate, if your country has signed the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation. If you do not meet these conditions, please refer to the rules applicable to your nationality. Internships Professional internships (paid employees) Your situation You are an employee and your foreign employer asks you to follow a professional training course : In a French training organisation, which must be declared to the French authorities In a French company with which you hold commercial relations Your visa If the training course does not exceed three months, you will be issued with a short-stay visa If the training course exceeds three months, you will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement "stagiaire" (trainee). You must validate it in the three months following your arrival in France In a French company belonging to the same international group of companies as your employer, you must meet the required conditions in order to obtain a multi-year residence permit (ICT) or your employer has obtained a work permit on your behalf. Your supporting documentation You must sign an training agreement with your employer, the training organisation or the host company. It must be included in your visa application. If the duration of your internship exceeds three months, the agreement must be sent to the French authorities by your French company or the training organisation you are attending; failing this, the association which arranged your internship/training. You must enclose this validated agreement with your visa application. Associate intern doctor or pharmacist Your situation You are a doctor with a degree in medicine or pharmacy that allows you to practice in your country or in the country where you graduated. In the framework of international hospital cooperation, you can follow an additional practical training course in a French public hospital. Your visa You will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement "stagiaire" (trainee). You must validate in the three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation You must have previously signed a personal agreement with the establishment that is hosting you for a period of six months, which may be renewed once. It must be validated by the French authorities before you apply for your visa. Nursing internship Your situation In the framework of international cooperation between hospitals, you can follow an additional practical training course in a French public hospital. You hold a nursing diploma allowing you to practice in your country of origin or in the country where you graduated. Your visa You will be issued with a long-stay visa equivalent to a residence permit, bearing the statement “stagiaire” (trainee). You must validate in the three months following your arrival in France. Your supporting documentation You must have previously signed a personal agreement with the establishment that is hosting you for a period of six months, which may be renewed once. It must be validated by the French authorities before you apply for your visa. Observer internship Your situation You may do a three-month internship, which is renewable once, as part of a university cooperation scheme. You are a post-graduate medical student in your country and want to participate in an inter-university cooperation scheme. Your visa You will be issued with a short-stay visa valid for 90 days maximum. If you need to extend this, please visit your local prefecture in France. Your supporting documentation You must sign an training agreement with the public health establishment . Preparing my visa application Assess your situation with France-Visas online support and identify the necessary supporting documents. Making my visa application After checking the need for a visa to stay in France, you start your process online. Gouvernement info.gouv.fr service-public.fr legifrance.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Site Map Accessibilité : partiellement conforme Legal notices Contact us Sauf mention explicite de propriété intellectuelle détenue par des tiers, les contenus de ce site sont proposés sous licence etalab-2.0 Hidden
