Refusal to open a bank account: account entitlement | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Money - Taxes - Consumption Bank accounts Refusal to open a bank account: account entitlement This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Refusal to open a bank account: account entitlement Verified 05 April 2024 - Directorate for Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) A bank won't open a bank account for you? In this case, you can enter the Banque de France to benefit from the account entitlement procedure . The Banque de France then designates a bank, close to your home or the place of your choice, which must open an account with basic banking services. Here is the information you need to know about the account entitlement. Unfold all What is the account entitlement? A bank may refuse you to open an account. If a bank does not respond to your account opening request within 15 days However, this is considered a refusal. The deadline starts from the date of the notice of receipt of your request or its date of submission by hand or at the counter. The bank must then provide you with a rejection letter with the reason. She must also inform you about the possibility to contact the Banque de France to benefit from the procedure of account entitlement. The Banque de France then designates a bank that must open an account for you and give you access to basic banking services. Who can benefit from the account entitlement? To benefit from the account entitlement procedure, you must complete one of the following criteria: Reside in France Reside legally in the territory of another Member State of the European Union but not for professional purposes Be of French nationality and reside outside France. Warning if you already have a deposit account in France, you cannot benefit from the right to the account. You can benefit from the account entitlement even if you are in any of the following: Banking ban Subscribed to Personal Credit Incident File (FICP) Over-indebted Holder of a collective account. How do I apply for an account entitlement? The bank that has refused to open an account with you may, on your request, send a request for entitlement to the account to the Banque de France. You can also go directly to the counter a branch of the Banque de France to complete the application or send it to him by mail . Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Banque de France, branch Your file should contain the following documents: Account Entitlement Request Form Valid French or foreign ID Proof of domicile (e.g. water bill or telephone under 3 months, rent receipt under 3 months, title to the principal residence) Letter of refusal from the bank approached, or acknowledgement of receipt of the registered letter or proof of the deposit by hand of the request to open an account, more than 15 days old Honor declaration that you do not have a personal or professional deposit account, and if there is one, the decision to terminate the account agreement Honor certificate that you are legally resident in the territory of another EU Member State, if you are in this situation. An authorized consumer association, your Caf : titleContent , your department or your communal or intercommunal social action center can also assist you in your efforts. How is the bank account opened? Within 1 working day from the receipt of the documents, the Banque de France shall designate by post the bank responsible for opening the account. The designated bank must send you by mail a list of the documents needed to open the account and the contact details of the bank agency to which you should address. This information must be sent to you within 3 working days of the bank's designation. The bank concerned must open the account within 3 working days of receipt of the documents necessary. What banking services does the account entitlement provide access to? The account agreement associated with openness is limited to the following basic banking services: Opening, maintenance and closing of the account On-demand issuance of bank identity statements Domiciliation of bank transfers Monthly submission of a statement of account transactions Execution of cash transactions Cashing checks and bank transfers Deposits and withdrawals of cash at the bank's counter or at its cash machines Payments by direct debit, interbank payment document or bank transfer Means of remote consultation of the account balance Credit card each use of which is authorized by the bank 2 check forms of banks per month or equivalent means of payment offering the same services. Is there a charge for using the bank account? Opening a bank account under the right to account and the use of basic banking services are free . Can the bank account be closed? The bank designated by the Banque de France can decide on its own to close your account. For this, one of the following conditions must be completed: You deliberately used the account to carry out illegal transactions You provided inaccurate information You no longer meet the residency or residence requirements You opened a 2 e a deposit account in France that allows you to use basic banking services You have repeatedly been rude to the staff of the credit institution The bank was unable to identify you or collect the information needed to open or operate the account. In case of account termination , the bank must send you its reasoned decision by letter and inform the Banque de France accordingly. You have a two-month period of notice except in the following 2 cases: You deliberately used the account to carry out illegal transactions You provided inaccurate information The bank must also inform you of the existence, within the Banque de France, of a customer relations service to handle any disputes related to this termination. You can enter this service as many times as necessary. Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Info Service Savings Bank Insurance Statute and miscellaneous references Monetary and Financial Code: Article L312-1 Account Entitlement Monetary and Financial Code: Article D312-5 Basic banking services Monetary and Financial Code: Articles R312-6 to R312-8-2 Order of 31 July 2015 establishing the list of supporting documents for the exercise of the right to the account with the Banque de France Order of 18 December 2008 approving the Accessibility Charter to strengthen the effectiveness of the right to an account Online services and forms Application for entitlement to the deposit account (natural person) Form FAQ What is a bank account agreement? Additional topics Account Entitlement Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR) Caf : Family Allowance Fund Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden Day actually worked in a company or administration. There are five per week. Caf : Family Allowance Fund Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
