How to determine your tax domicile? | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Money - Taxes - Consumption Income tax: return and income to be reported How to determine your tax domicile? This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. How to determine your tax domicile? Verified 01 January 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Whether you are French or not, tax services consider that your tax domicile is in France if you fill in one of the following criteria : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your home is in France Your tax domicile is in France if the habitual residence of your household is France. Your home is made up of you and your family. The tax authority detains the following persons: Your married, past or common-law partner Your children. On the other hand, it does not hold back your other relatives (parents, siblings, etc.) If you are single without children, your home is where you usually live, apart from your business trips. Your main residence is in France Your tax residence is in France if it is the place of your main stay, that is to say that you are staying there at least 183 days during the year therefore, more than 6 months. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). You work in France Your tax domicile is in France if you have your main activity there . The main activity is the one you spend the most effective time on or the one that provides you with the bulk of your income. If you have more than one activity, the main activity is taken into account. An activity carried out incidentally is not concerned. Please note Your tax domicile is in France if you are a manager of a company whose head office is in France and it has a turnover of more than 250 million euros. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). The center of your economic interests is in France Your tax domicile is considered in France if you've made your major investments there . Similarly, if the seat of your business, from where you administer your property, is in France. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). One international convention concluded between France and a foreigner country may provide for different rules. If necessary, check your situation with the tax authorities of the foreigner concerned. If you live in France and your spouse or partner Civil partnerships : titleContent to his tax domicile outside France (in application of a tax treaty ), you must report the following income: Your income and that of children and dependants who have their domicile in France The income from a French source of your spouse or partner of Civil partnerships domiciled outside France (provided that the tax is attributed to France by the tax convention). FYI Special rules apply to the determination of the tax domicile of international civil servants . For know your tax residence , check your situation with your tax department. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are still in France Consult your personal income tax service : Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot local service en ligne. What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Personal Income Tax Service (SIP) You can contact him directly from your online space: Taxes: access to your space Private You're abroad If you receive income from a French source, ask the non-resident tax service . Who shall I contact Non-Resident Personal Income Tax Service By phone +33 (0) 1 72 95 20 42 Monday to Friday from 9am to 4pm By mail Via your secure messaging on your personal account By post 10 rue du Center ASD 10010 93465 Noisy-Le-Grand Cedex Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Personal Income Tax Service (SIP) For general information Tax Information Service By phone: 0809,401,401 Monday to Friday from 8:30 am to 7 pm, excluding public holidays. Free service + price call To contact the local service managing your file Tax department (treasury, tax department...) Statute and miscellaneous references General Tax Code: Articles 4A to 8d Persons resident for tax purposes in France (Article 4 B) Bofip-Impôts n°BOI-IR-CHAMP-10 relating to taxable persons and tax domicile Online services and forms Taxes: access to your space Private Online service 2025 online 2024 income tax return (Individual section) Online service 2025 Income Tax Return 2024 (paper) Form Calculation simulator for 2025: 2024 income tax Simulator FAQ Income tax - Who is taxable? What is the principal residence for taxes? Additional topics 2025 Practical Brochure - 2024 Income Tax Return Ministry of Finance Overseas Departments - Special taxation arrangements Ministry of Finance Tax treaties signed by France Ministry of Finance Tax status of international civil servants Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, Mayotte, Reunion Login with the username and password of one of the following accounts: Impots.gouv, Ameli, L'identite numérique (La Poste), Yris, MSA, France identité or TrustMe Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
