Work of a foreigner in France: residence card - employee/temporary worker | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Titles, residence cards and travel documents for foreigner in France Work of a foreigner in France: residence card - employee/temporary worker This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Work of a foreigner in France: residence card - employee/temporary worker Verified 01 May 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) You are a foreigner national (no European ), you have found a job in France and you want to obtain a residence permit employee or temporary worker . If you are in DTA : titleContent , you are issued a residence permit employee . If you are in FIXED-TERM CONTRACT : titleContent , you are issued a residence permit temporary worker. What are the conditions and documents to be provided to obtain the residence permit? We're taking a look at the regulations. Warning Other rules apply to you if you are European or algerian . Employee on permanent contract Employee on a fixed-term contract Employee on permanent contract Step-by-step approach Unfold all 1 Check if you are concerned by the employee residence card You are concerned if you fill in all of the following conditions : To be foreigner in France and wish to work as employee Have a work authorization Have a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) employee if you are admitted for the 1 re times to stay in France. Warning The prefecture may refuse to deliver you your residence card if you have not complied with an obligation to leave the country (OQTF) or if you have committed any of the following acts: Forgery and use of forged documents Offenses severe or crimes (drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, procuring, working conditions or undignified accommodation, among others) Violence against elected officials, public officials or security agents. 2 Request the employee residence card The regulations vary depending on your place of residence : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad Your employer must make the request for work authorization before your entry into France . In case of agreement, the administration informs your employer, who must then inform you. You can apply for a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) using this online service: Apply for a visa You can start working as soon as you arrive in France. Validation of VLS-TS Within 3 months of your arrival in France, you must validate your VLS-TS and pay a tax that is added to the visa fee. The approach on the internet allows to be in regular stay and to be able to cross the border of the Schengen area . Validate a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) and pay the tax Please note The amount of the tax is €300 . Residence permit You must submit the application for a residence permit to the prefecture or sub-prefecture of your home, no later than 2 months before the expiry date of your VLS-TS . Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local Pivot local service en ligne. What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. If your file is complete, you will receive a receipt pending the response of the prefecture. You live in France Your employer must make the request for work authorization . You must submit your card application to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home before the end of your residence permit . Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. If your file is complete, you will receive a receipt pending the response of the prefecture. 3 Prepare the documents to be provided for the employee residence card Print this section The documents to be provided are different depending on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement At the end of the VLS-TS Employee You are still in the job for which the visa was issued Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Reason for stay Work authorization corresponding to the position occupied Elements justifying the maintenance of the employment contract: personal social declaration of the employer concerning you before the application for renewal of the residence permit, activity certificate or professional activity certificate of the last 12 months If your employer is an individual employer: certificate of employment ( Cesu : titleContent or other reporting body). This online service allows you to access the certificate of professional activity: Know the social benefits to which you may be entitled Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . You are unemployed Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Reasons for the stay Certificate of employer for France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) justifying the termination of the employment contract Individual situation notice drawn up by France Travail. Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic You want to work in another job Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Reason for stay Attestation from the previous employer for France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) justifying the termination of the employment contract Dematerialized work authorization produced by the new employer Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . You change status Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa or valid residence permit Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Reason for stay Copy of the work authorization produced by the future employer Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . 4 Know the cost of the employee residence card You have to pay €350 (tax of €300 + stamp duty of €50 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment is required when the card is handed over. 5 Wait for the processing of the file of the employee residence card At the end of the investigation of your file, you will be in either of these situations : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your request is accepted If your application is accepted, you are summoned to the prefecture for the issuance of the title. Your request is denied If the prefect has notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture hasn't responded after 4 months, this is an implied refusal. You can then train within 2 months from this refusal : One administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal Warning If your receipt reaches the end of its validity period and you do not have a response from the prefecture, it is possible that the processing time will be extended. In this case, you can get the renewal of your receipt. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. The card is given to you by the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home. 6 Know the validity period of the employee residence card This card is valid 1 year and renewable. 7 Renew the employee residence card Depending on your situation on the expiry date of your 1-year card, the residence card you can obtain will be different: If you are unemployed , and compensated by France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi), you can benefit from a new temporary residence card employee valid for 1 year . If at the end of this period you have not found a job, you will receive a new temporary residence card employee . Its duration is equal to that of your unemployment insurance entitlements. If you are still employed However, you must apply to renew your residence card. If it is accepted, you will receive a multi-annual residence card valid 4 years . In addition, you must meet a condition of republican integration assessed against the following criteria: Your attendance and the seriousness of your participation in the training prescribed as part of the Republican Integration Contract (CIR) Your knowledge of the French language at A2 level for the issuance of a first multi-year residence card, unless you are over 65 years of age Success at civic examination entry ‘multi-annual residence card for the issue of a first multi-annual residence card, unless you are over 65 years of age. To examine your integration into the French business, the prefect takes into account the follow-up of your CIR. Submission of the application for renewal of the employee residence card Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are still in the job that justified the issuance of the last work authorization You must submit the application for renewal of your residence permit to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home, no later than 2 months before the expiry date. Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. You must provide the following: Personal Information Valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Reason for stay Work authorization corresponding to the position occupied Personal declaration of the employer concerning you before the application for renewal of the residence permit, activity certificate or professional activity certificate of the last 12 months If your employer is an individual employer: attestation of compliance with the online declarations of the employment contract ( Cesu : titleContent or other reporting body). This online service allows you to access the certificate of professional activity: Know the social benefits to which you may be entitled Integration Certificate of knowledge of the French language at A2 level for the issuance of a 1 re multi-annual residence card Certificate of Success at civic examination entry ‘multi-annual residence card ” for the issue of a first multi-annual residence card Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . You're out of a job You must submit the application for renewal of your residence permit to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home, no later than 2 months before the expiry date. Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. You must provide the following: Personal Information Valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Reason for stay Attestation from the previous employer to France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) justifying the termination of the employment contract Individual situation notice drawn up by France Travail. Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . You've changed jobs You must submit the application for renewal of your residence permit to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home, no later than 2 months before the expiry date. Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. You must provide the following: Personal Information Valid residence permit Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Reason for stay Attestation from the previous employer to France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) justifying the termination of the employment contract Dematerialized work authorization issued to the new employer. Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. Cost of renewing the employee residence card You have to pay €250 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €200 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment is required when the card is handed over. If you submit your application after the deadline, except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa, you will have to pay, in addition to the cost of the card, a visa fee for regularization of €180 . Employee on a fixed-term contract If you are already in France or come to France to work as an employee, you can obtain a temporary residence card. It is marked temporary worker if you have a fixed-term contract (CDD). Step-by-step approach Unfold all 1 Check if you are covered by the temporary worker residence card You are concerned if you fill in all of the following conditions : To be foreigner and come to France to wish to work as employee Have a work authorization Have a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) temporary worker if you are admitted for the 1 re times to stay in France. Warning The prefecture may refuse to deliver you your residence card if you have not complied with an obligation to leave the country (OQTF) or if you have committed any of the following acts: Forgery and use of forged documents Offenses severe or crimes (drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, procuring, working conditions or undignified accommodation, among others) Violence against elected officials, public officials or security agents. 2 Apply for a temporary worker residence card The regulations vary depending on your place of residence : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You live abroad Your employer must make the application online work authorization before your entry into France . In case of agreement, the administration informs your employer, who himself warns you. You can apply for a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) using the online service below. You can start working as soon as you arrive in France. Apply for a visa Validation of VLS-TS Within 3 months of your arrival in France, you must validate your VLS-TS and pay a tax that is added to the visa fee. The approach on the internet allows to be in regular stay and to be able to cross the border of the Schengen area . Validate a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) and pay the tax Please note The amount of the tax is €300 . Residence permit: You must submit your card application to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home, no later than 2 months before the expiry date of your VLS-TS. Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local Pivot local service en ligne. What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. If your file is complete, you will receive a receipt pending the response of the prefecture. You live in France You must submit your application for a card to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home before the end of your residence permit. Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. If your file is complete, you will receive a receipt pending the response of the prefecture. 3 Prepare the documents to be provided for the temporary worker residence card The documents to be provided are different depending on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement At the end of the VLT-TS "Temporary worker" You still occupy the fixed-term contract that justified the issuance of your last work authorization Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Reason for stay Work authorization corresponding to the position occupied Element of the employer's personal declaration concerning you before the application for renewal of the residence permit or certificate of professional activity of the last 12 months If your employer is an individual employer: certificate of employment ( Cesu : titleContent or other reporting body). This online service allows you to access the certificate of professional activity: Know the social benefits to which you may be entitled Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . You want to take another job under a fixed-term contract Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Reason for stay Attestation from the previous employer for France Travail (formerly Pôle emploi) justifying the termination of the employment contract Dematerialized work authorization issued to the new employer. Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . In case of change of status Personal Information Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Long-stay visa coming to the end of validity Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Reason for stay Copy of the work authorization produced by the new employer. Supporting documents to be submitted at a later date, at the time the residence permit is issued Proof of payment of stamp duty Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent . 4 Know the cost of the temporary worker residence card You have to pay €350 (tax of €300 + stamp duty of €50 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment is required when the card is handed over. 5 Wait for the processing of the temporary worker residence card file At the end of the investigation of your file, you will be in either of these situations : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your request is accepted If your application is accepted, you are summoned to the prefecture for the issuance of the title. Your request is denied If the prefect has notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture hasn't responded after 4 months, this is an implied refusal. You can then train within 2 months from this refusal : One administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal Warning If your receipt reaches the end of its validity period and you do not have a response from the prefecture, it is possible that the processing time will be extended. In this case, you can get the renewal of your receipt. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. The card is given to you by the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home. 6 Know the validity period of the temporary worker residence card This card is valid 1 year , it shall be renewable. 7 Renewing the temporary worker residence card Duration of renewal Your residence card can be renewed. The duration of its renewal shall be equal to: Either from FIXED-TERM CONTRACT : titleContent remaining to run Or the new fixed-term contract. This duration may so be greater than 1 year . Submission of the application You must submit the application for renewal of your card to the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home, at the latest 2 months before the expiry date . Check the deposit procedure on the website of your prefecture. The documents to be provided will depend on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You still occupy the fixed-term contract that justified the issuance of your last work authorization Residence permit ending Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service Proof of payment of the stamp duty (to be delivered at the time of delivery of the title) Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent (to be delivered at the time of delivery of the title) Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Work authorization corresponding to the position occupied Element of the employer's personal declaration concerning you before the application for renewal of the residence permit or attestation of activity or attestation of professional activity of the last 12 months: This online service allows you to access the certificate of professional activity: Know the social benefits to which you may be entitled If your employer is an individual employer: attestation of compliance with the online declarations of the employment contract ( Cesu : titleContent or other reporting body). You want to take another job under a fixed-term contract Residence permit ending Passport (pages concerning civil status, validity dates, entry stamps and visas) Or consular certificate with photo Or photo ID Or consular card with photo Or certificate of nationality of less than 6 months with photo Proof of address less than 6 months old 3 photos If the request is made on the internet: indicate the code of the e-photo (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board) If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service Proof of payment of the stamp duty (to be delivered at the time of delivery of the title) Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent (to be delivered at the time of delivery of the title) Dematerialized work authorization issued to the new employer Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. Cost You have to pay €250 (stamp duty of €50 + tax of €200 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment is required when the card is handed over. If you submit your application after the deadline, except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa, you will have to pay, in addition to the cost of the card, a visa fee for regularization of €180 . Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Administrative information by phone - Allô Service Public accès For more information on this subject, you can contact Allô Service Public. Attention: the service does not have access to users' personal files and therefore cannot provide information on their progress. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Statute and miscellaneous references Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L412-7 to L412-10 Contract of commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L421-1 to L421-4 Residence card for business reasons Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L432-1 to L432-15 Withdrawal and refusal of the residence card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-1 to L436-13 Taxes and stamp duty payable Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-10 to L436-13 Taxes payable by the employer Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R421-1 to D421-6 Business residence card: R421-1 to R421-5 Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Annex 10 List of parts to be supplied: points 1 to 2 Order of 1 April 2021 establishing the list of documents to be provided to obtain a work authorization Online services and forms Know the social benefits to which you may be entitled Online service Apply for a visa Online service Additional topics Foreigner in France: multi-year residence card - seasonal worker Service Public Talent card: multi-year residence card of a foreigner in France Service Public Foreigner in France: multi-year residence card - ICT seconded employee Service Public Welcome to France: customized information for your installation in France Business France DTA : Employment contract of indefinite duration FIXED-TERM CONTRACT : Fixed-term contract Cesu : Universal Service Employment Check Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland Act prohibited by law and punishable by a fine and/or imprisonment of less than 10 years The most serious offense punishable by imprisonment (e.g. rape, violence resulting in death without intent, murder, murder) Situation of a foreigner in possession of documents authorizing him to remain on French territory Formality by which a procedural document or decision is brought to the attention of a person Exceptional, unforeseeable and irresistible event justifying the exemption from an obligation, commitment or liability (e.g. natural disaster for an insurance contract, death of the employee for an employment contract) DTA : Employment contract of indefinite duration FIXED-TERM CONTRACT : Fixed-term contract Cesu : Universal Service Employment Check Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
