Temporary residence card "visitor" of a foreigner in France | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Titles, residence cards and travel documents for foreigner in France Temporary residence card "visitor" of a foreigner in France This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Temporary residence card "visitor" of a foreigner in France Verified 01 June 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Are you a foreigner and would like to stay in France for more than 3 months as an inactive person? You can get a temporary residence card visitor . It allows you to stay in France for more than 3 months without being able to work. It concerns in particular foreigners who come to exercise religious functions in France. The card is issued under resource conditions. It is valid for 1 year maximum and is renewable. We present you the information to know. Step-by-step approach Unfold all 1 Check if you can apply for the temporary residence card « visitor » The regulations are different depending on your nationality: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are European If you are European , you cannot obtain a temporary residence card visitor . You do not need a residence card. However, if you want one, you can ask an EU/EEA/Swiss citizen residence card as a pensioner or inactive . You are Algerian If you are Algerian, you can not apply for the residence card "visitor" but you can get a 1 year certificate of residence visitor . Other situation If you are not European or Algerian and you want to come to France for a period of more than 3 months, you can apply for the residence card « visitor ». You must meet the following 3 conditions: Have sufficient resources to live throughout your stay Have health insurance covering the duration of your stay Do not work in France whether as an employee, trader, self-entrepreneur, craftsman, liberal profession etc. The minimum amount of resources required for a single person is €1,477.93 net monthly, over 1 year. This can be your own resources (annuities or pensions, real estate income, etc.) or those of a family member. You can present bank certificates, sureties or proof of income provided by creditworthy persons. Please note Family allowances are not taken into account, as they are paid for the maintenance of children. Housing conditions are also taken into account in the assessment of your resources, and possibly the sureties provided by creditworthy persons (your family in particular). You can ask for this title if you are: Dependent parent of your children who are legally resident in France Partner of Civil partnerships : titleContent (having less than 1 year of common life) Religious (priest, imam, etc.) and that you come to exercise your functions in France. Warning The prefecture may refuse to deliver you your residence card if you have not complied with an obligation to leave the country (OQTF) or if you have committed any of the following acts: Forgery and use of false documents Misdemeanors severe or crimes (drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, procuring, working conditions or undignified accommodation, among others) Violence against elected officials, public officials or security agents. 2 Prepare documents for the temporary residence card « visitor » You must submit the following documents: Long-stay visa or valid residence permit (unless you have a "long-term resident - EU" issued by another member country of the European Union ) Proof of civil status (unless you already have a residence card): full copy of birth certificate with the most recent information Proof of nationality: passport (pages concerning civil status, dates of validity, entry stamps and visas), or other documentary evidence with photo (consular certificate, identity card, consular card, certificate of nationality, etc.) Proof of address less than 6 months old Declaration on the honor of no polygamy in France if you are married and come from a country that allows it Proofs of your resources reaching an annual amount equal to €17,735.19 (bank certificates, sureties of solvent persons, pension vouchers for pensioners, etc.) If you are cared for by a third party: documents justifying sufficient resources of the guarantor, certificate of financial support and identity card of the guarantor Attestation on the handwritten honor not to work in France Certificate of health insurance covering the duration of your stay Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent (to be delivered at the time of the delivery of the title) Proof of payment of the tax on the residence permit and the stamp duty (to be submitted at the time of issue of the permit) e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic 3 Apply for the temporary residence card « visitor » You must submit your card application on the Internet, at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document (VLS, VLS-TS or residence permit): Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. 4 Wait for the decision of the prefect on your request for a temporary residence card « visitor » Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your request is accepted If your request is accepted, you are summoned to the prefecture for the issuance of the title. The card is given to you by the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home. Your request is denied If the prefect has notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Except in exceptional cases, this refusal shall be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court (within 48 hours, 15 days or 30 days depending on the type of OQTF). The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied after 4 months, this is an implicit refusal. You can then train within 2 months from this refusal : One administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal 5 Know the cost of the temporary residence card « visitor » You have to pay €350 (tax of €300 + stamp duty of €50 ) by tax stamps . Proof of payment of the stamp duty is requested when the card is handed over. If you submit your application after the deadline, except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa, you will have to pay, in addition to the cost of the card, a visa fee of regularization of €180 . You can buy the tax stamp on the internet or at a tobacco office: On the internet In a tobacco shop On the internet You can purchase your tax stamp using an online service: Purchase on the internet of the tax stamp - Title for foreigner Payment is possible with the following credit cards: Credit card (CB) and e-credit card Visa Mastercard. However, payment by Paypal or American Express card is not accepted. The electronic stamp can be issued on two supports: PDF document with a 2D code that can also be scanned directly from a phone or tablet by the service responsible for receiving your request SMS containing the 16-digit identifier of the stamp that will be accepted by the agent responsible for processing your file. Request a refund of a tax stamp In a tobacco shop You can buy a tax stamp from a tobacco office, if the business is equipped to be able to edit them. Warning Do not buy a fine stamp by mistake. 6 Know the duration of the temporary residence card « visitor » This « visitor » residence card is valid 1 year . It is renewable. 7 Renew the temporary residence card "visitor" Approach You must submit your card renewal application on the Internet, at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end of validity of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title). Apply online for a residence permit, a change of situation, a travel document, an application for naturalization - ANEF Warning The prefecture may refuse you renew your residence card if you are in one of the following situations: Failure to comply with an obligation to leave the country (OQTF) Having committed forgery and use of forged documents Have committed offenses serious or crimes (drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, procuring, working conditions or undignified accommodation, among others) Have committed acts of violence against elected officials, public officials or security agents. Documents to be provided You must submit the following documents: Long-stay visa or valid residence permit (unless you have a "long-term resident - EU" issued by another member country of the European Union ) Proof of civil status (unless you already have a residence card): full copy of birth certificate with the most recent information Proof of nationality: passport (pages concerning civil status, dates of validity, entry stamps and visas), or other documentary evidence with photo (consular certificate, identity card, consular card, certificate of nationality, etc.) Proof of address less than 6 months old Declaration on the honor of no polygamy in France if you are married and come from a country that allows it Proofs of your resources reaching an annual amount equal to €17,735.19 (bank certificates, sureties of solvent persons, pension vouchers for pensioners, etc.) If you are cared for by a third party: documents justifying sufficient resources of the guarantor, certificate of financial support and identity card of the guarantor Attestation on the handwritten honor not to work in France Certificate of health insurance covering the duration of your stay Medical certificate issued by the Ofii : titleContent (to be delivered at the time of delivery of the title), unless you have already produced it Proof of payment of the tax on the residence permit and the stamp duty (to be delivered at the time of issue of the permit). Cost You have to pay €250 by tax stamps . Proof of payment of the stamp duty is requested when the card is handed over. If you submit your application after the deadline, except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa, you will have to pay a visa fee for regularization of €180 . You must pay this visa fee by tax stamps . Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Administrative information by telephone - Allô Service Public accès For more information on this subject, you can contact Allô Service Public. Please note: the service does not have access to users' personal files and cannot therefore provide information on their progress. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Statute and miscellaneous references Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L426-20 Temporary residence card "visitor" Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L432-1 to L432-15 Refusal and withdrawal of residence card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L412-7 to L412-10 Contract of commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-1 to L436-13 Taxes and stamp duty payable Code of Entry and Residence of foreigners and Right of Asylum: Articles R432-1 to R432-15 Refusal and withdrawal of residence card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R433-1 to 433-6 Renewal of the residence card Code of Entry and Residence of foreigners and Right to Asylum: Annex 10 List of documents to be supplied: item 59 FAQ Which photo to provide for an identity document (passport, identity card...)? Foreigner in France: how to buy a tax stamp? Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland An act prohibited by law and punishable by a fine and/or imprisonment of less than 10 years The most serious offense punishable by a prison sentence (e.g. rape, violence resulting in death without intent, murder, murder) Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. Being married to several people Formality by which a procedural act or decision is brought to the attention of a person Exceptional, unforeseeable and irresistible event justifying exemption from an obligation, commitment or liability (e.g. natural disaster for an insurance contract, death of the employee for an employment contract) Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact Ofii : Office français de l'immigration et de l'intégration Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
