Long-stay visa - France-Visas Skip to Main Content Content Menu Search Footer Gouvernement Rechercher Menu France-Visas Le site officiel des visas pour la France Frequently Asked Questions Follow an application EN - English FR - Français EN - English ES - Español ZH - 中文 AR - العربية RU - Русский Close Rechercher Rechercher Close Get informed The approach Short-stay visa Long-stay visa Airport Transit Visa France in the Schengen area Your arrival in France My situation Close Coming to France for … Find all the information according to your reason for stay. Tourism and private stay Young travellers Tourist stay of less than 3 months Tourist stay of more than 3 months Stay for medical care Volunteering Professional purpose Salaried employment Self employed person or liberal activity Young employees Job Search / Business Creation International talents Business travel Study or training Student Young "au pair" School-going minor Student trainee Family purpose Adoption Family of French national Family of european national Family of foreign national residing in France Visa application News Home Long-stay visa Under this heading Title of heading The approach Short-stay visa Long-stay visa Airport Transit Visa France in the Schengen area Your arrival in France Long-stay visa For any stay in France exceeding 90 days, you are required to apply in advance for a long-stay vis. In this instance your nationality does not exempt you from requirements. Whatever the duration of your planned stay, the duration of your long-stay visa must be between three months and one year. In order to extend your stay beyond the period of validity of your visa, you must apply for a residence permit at a prefecture. During its period of validity, the long-stay visa is equivalent to a Schengen visa, enabling you to move around and stay in the Schengen Area outside France for periods not exceeding 90 days over any period of 180 consecutive days, under the same conditions as if you held a Schengen visa. Long-stay visas for Metropolitan France The different categories of long-stay visas First check that your nationality or the context of your stay in France do not exempt you from the visa application requirements (visa assistant) and seek information about issuance conditions for a visa that will enable you to : Stay for an extended period for tourist or personal reasons Carry out a professional activity Pursue education, training or internship Join family members In any of the above situations, you will be required to attach supporting documents specific to your situation to your application, and follow the respective procedures. There are two main types of long-stay visas. You will be issued the one that corresponds to the duration and the reason for your stay/installation in France. The long-stay visa, valid as a residence permit (VLS-TS) , for a stay of less than or equivalent to one year. The latter exempts from the obligation to apply for a residence permit. The holder of this type of visa must validate his VLS-TS within 3 months of his arrival in France on the portal of the Digital Administration of Foreigners in France (ANEF) The long-stay visa bearing the mention "residence card to be applied for within 2 months of arrival". Its holder must present himself in the Prefecture within 2 months, in order to obtain a residence permit. In certain cases, in particular for visas issued under the "Passeport-talent", a multiannual residence permit may be issued Finally, a temporary long-stay visa (VLS-T) can be issued, especially for people who are certain not to extend their stay beyond the duration of their visa. Visas specific to certain circumstances In special cases, travellers may be eligible for specific visas : In the event of successful entrance examination or admission upon interview to an institution of higher learning, under a short-stay visa bearing the specification "étudiant-concours" (student course) you may apply for a student residence permit from the prefecture As a holder of a visa bearing the specification "mineur scolarisé" (school-going minor) to attend school or an institution of higher learning, you may stay 11 months in France, renewable for the duration of your studies As a holder of a long-stay visa bearing the specification "vacances-travail" (working holiday) As a family member of a national of a European Union Member State , European Economic Space state, or Switzerland, subject to visa requirements, and holder of a short-stay visa, you will be able to apply for a residence permit once in France In which cases is a long stay authorised without a visa ? Citizens of the European Union, European Economic Area, Switzerland, Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, and the Vatican may stay in the European territory of France without a visa for longer than 90 days. Long-stay Visas for Non-European French Territories Most nationalities are subject to long-stay visa requirements to stay in said territories for more than 90 days, with the exception of : Citizens of the European Union, Monaco and Andorra, for all territories Citizens of the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland, except French Polynesia, New Caledonia, Wallis-et-Futuna and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands (TAAF) Preparing my visa application Assess your situation with France-Visas online support and identify the necessary supporting documents. Making my visa application After checking the need for a visa to stay in France, you start your process online. Gouvernement info.gouv.fr service-public.fr legifrance.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Site Map Accessibilité : partiellement conforme Legal notices Contact us Sauf mention explicite de propriété intellectuelle détenue par des tiers, les contenus de ce site sont proposés sous licence etalab-2.0 Hidden
