Foreigners student in France: long-stay visa or residence permit | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Foreigner - Europe Titles, residence cards and travel documents for foreigner in France Foreigners student in France: long-stay visa or residence permit This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. Foreigners student in France: long-stay visa or residence permit Verified 01 May 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Additional cases ? For an Algerian If you are foreigner and want to study in France, you must first apply for a long-stay visa worth a residence permit (VLS-TS) mention student (valid for 4 months to 1 year). After 1 year, you can apply for a temporary residence card student (valid for 1 year) or multi-year student (valid for 2 to 4 years). You must meet resource requirements. In some cases, the residence permit can be issued automatically. Here is the information you need to know. 1st ʳ After 1 year of stay 1st ʳ Unfold all Which foreigner is concerned by a residence permit or a VLS-TS “student”? You are concerned if you come to France to pursue higher education without having a residence permit for personal or family reasons (for example, resident card , residence permit private and family life ). You must be registered (or pre-registered): In a public or private institution of higher education or initial training (university, university, etc.) Or in a higher vocational training organization. You must be able to justify resources at least equal to €615 per month. But this means test does not apply if you have passed the entrance examination to a higher education institution that has signed an agreement with the State. Please note A foreigner that has signed a research residency agreement to train for research but whose funding does not reach the threshold for eligibility for a residence permit ‘talent-researcher’ obtains a “student” residence permit. If you come to France to take a competition or an entrance exam in higher education, you must ask for a student-competition short-stay visa . What are the steps to take for a foreigner student? Your procedures vary depending on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You entered France regularly and passed a school entrance exam You are dispensed of VLS-TS if you entered France regularly with a student-competition short-stay visa . You must apply directly for a residence permit student in the prefecture. Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. You have entered France regularly, have attended school in France since at least your 16th birthday and are pursuing higher education You are dispensed VLS-TS if you have entered France regularly (under short-stay visa for example). You must apply directly for a residence permit student in the prefecture . Who shall I contact Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Prefecture Sub-prefecture Prefecture of Police of Paris - Service of residence permits Warning It is not possible to carry out the procedures in some sub-prefectures. Find out more on the website of your prefecture. Other case Before starting your process, you must consult the official website France-visas to find the procedure that concerns you and know the list of documents to be provided. France-visas - Students Foreigners from 72 countries must apply for their visa on the site Studies in France at the time of online pre-enrollment in French higher education. Foreigners from other countries must go through the visa application procedure by France-Visas . Tableau - Application procedure for student visa by country of large regional areas Regional Area Nationality Application procedure Africa South Africa Studies in France Angola Benin Burkina Faso Burundi Cameroon Comoros Congo-Brazzaville Côte d'Ivoire Djibouti Ethiopia Gabon Ghana Guinea Kenya Madagascar Mali Mauritius Mauritania Nigeria Central African Republic Democratic Republic of Congo Rwanda Senegal Chad Togo Other country Apply for a visa Burma Studies in France Asia / Oceania Cambodia China South Korea India Indonesia Japan Malaysia Nepal Pakistan Singapore Taiwan Thailand Vietnam Other country Apply for a visa Europe Armenia Studies in France Azerbaijan Georgia United Kingdom Russia Turkey Ukraine Other country Apply for a visa America Argentina Studies in France Bolivia Brazil Canada Chile Colombia Ecuador United States Haiti Mexico Peru Dominican Republic Other country Apply for a visa North Africa / Middle East Algeria Studies in France Saudi Arabia Bahrain Egypt United Arab Emirates Iran Israel Jordan Kuwait Lebanon Morocco Qatar Tunisia Other country Apply for a visa How to validate the VLS-TS “student” after arrival in France? Within 3 months of your arrival in France, you must validate your VLS-TS and pay a tax that is added to the visa fee. The online approach makes it possible to regular stay and to be able to cross the border of the Schengen area . Validate a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) and pay the tax What is the amount of tax to be paid when validating a “student” VLS-TS? You have to pay €150 . Payment is made upon validation of your long-stay visa as a residence permit. What is the validity period of a “student” VLS-TS? The VLS-TS is issued for a duration from 4 months to 1 year . After 1 year of stay Unfold all Who is concerned by the renewal of the right to stay as a student? You are concerned if you are in France to pursue higher education without having a residence permit for personal or family reasons (for example resident card , residence permit private and family life ). You must be registered (or pre-registered): In a public or private institution of higher education or initial training (university, university, etc.) Or in a higher vocational training organization. You must be able to justify resources at least equal to €615 per month which will be appreciated according to your particular situation. What steps should a student foreigner take when the VLS-TS is no longer valid? You must apply for your residence permit at the earliest 4 months and at the latest 2 months before the end the validity of your residence document (visa, VLS-TS or title). The process is done only on the internet : Apply for a student residence permit When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. You can check the status of your file at any time. You can also respond to any requests for additional information and take note of the decisions taken. It may be necessary to go to the prefecture for a fingerprinting (if it has not already been done). Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your request is accepted If your application is accepted, you are summoned to the prefecture for the issuance of the title. The card is given to you by the prefecture (or sub-prefecture) of your home. Your request is denied The prefect notified you of the refusal The prefect's decision is yours notified by reasoned letter (explicit decision). Unless otherwise specified, such refusal may be accompanied by a obligation to leave French territory (OQTF) determining the country to which you will be returned. You can form a litigation before the administrative court (within 48 hours, 15 days or 30 days depending on the type of OQTF). The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal No response from the prefect on your request If the prefecture has not replied within 90 days, this is an implied refusal. You can then train within 2 months from this refusal : One administrative appeal ( ex gratia before the prefect and/or hierarchical redress before the Minister of the Interior) And/or a litigation before the administrative court . The use of a lawyer is not mandatory. Who shall I contact Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Administrative Tribunal What documents must be provided for the renewal of a “student” residence permit? Print this section Valid long-stay visa or residence permit Proof of address less than 6 months old e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Registration produced by the educational institution (which may be a public or private institution of higher education) or pre-registration If you request a residence permit "student - mobility program" : any document produced by the institution justifying that your course is part of a mobility program within the European Union Transcripts for the past year Last degree obtained in France Certificate of success issued by the institution Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Proofs of your resources that must be at least equal to €615 per month: If you are a French government scholarship recipient or a beneficiary of European programs: proof of this situation If you are a scholarship holder in your home country: certificate from the paying agency of the home country specifying the amount and duration of the scholarship If you work: your last 3 payslips If you are covered by a third party: proof of identity of the third party + bank certificates of the programming of regular transfers (or certificate on the honor of payment of sums allowing to reach the amount of €615 / month) If you have sufficient resources: bank attestation of sufficient credit balance. In case of multiple resources, you must attach the proof of each of the resources. They will be appreciated according to your particular situation. Signed copy of the commitment to respect the principles of the Republic What is the amount of tax and stamp duty for a “student” residence permit? You must pay a tax and a stamp duty of €150 by tax stamps . Warning If you submit your application for renewal of title after the deadline, you will also have to pay a visa fee for regularization of €180 (except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa). What is the validity period of the “student” residence permit? The card is valid 1 year and renewable. What permit can be issued when renewing the “student” residence permit? After 1 year of presence in France on a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) or temporary residence permit student , you can benefit from a multi-annual residence permit student . Its duration is equal to the number of years remaining in the course of study in which you are enrolled. For example, if you have completed your 1 re Year of license in France, you will receive a valid title for 2 years. If you are studying at a major school, you will receive a certificate at the end of your training (until you graduate as an engineer, for example). Conditions You must comply with the 2 initial conditions for issuing the temporary residence permit student , i.e.: Be enrolled in an institution (public or private) of education or initial training And justify monthly resources at least equal to €615 . You must also justify the real and serious nature of your studies. Your entire curriculum since your entry into France is taken into account. To assess the real and serious nature of your studies, the following criteria will be checked: Attendance Results of examinations Diplomas obtained Explanations provided in case of curriculum change. FYI A repetition per cycle of studies does not in itself call into question the seriousness of the studies. Application for the multiannual title The process is done only on the internet : Apply for a student residence permit When you submit your application for a residence permit on the internet, you will immediately receive a dematerialized certificate of deposit. You can check the status of your file at any time. You can also respond to any requests for additional information and take note of the decisions taken. It may be necessary to go to the prefecture for a fingerprinting (if it has not already been done). Warning If you submit your application for renewal of title after the deadline, you will also have to pay a visa fee for regularization of €180 (except in cases of force majeure or presentation of a valid visa). Documents to be provided Print To apply for a multi-annual title, you must provide the following documents: Valid residence permit e-photo : enter the e-photo code (provided by the photographer or the authorized booth on the photo board). If you don't have an e-photo yet, you can locate a digital photo and signature service . Registration produced by the educational institution (which may be a public or private institution of higher education) or pre-registration Transcripts for the past year Last degree obtained in France Certificate of success issued by the institution Proof of your resources (unless you have a short-stay visa) "student contest" ) which must be at least €615 per month: If you are a French government scholarship recipient or a beneficiary of European programs: proof of this situation If you are a scholarship holder in your home country: certificate from the paying agency of the home country specifying the amount and duration of the scholarship If you work: your last 3 payslips If you are covered by a third party: proof of identity of the third party + bank certificates of the programming of regular transfers (or certificate on the honor of payment of sums allowing to reach the amount of €615 per month) If you have sufficient resources: bank attestation of sufficient credit balance. In case of resources multiple , you must reach the supporting document from each resources. They will be studied according to your particular situation. Cost of residence permit You have to settle €150 ( €100 of tax + €50 stamp duty) by tax stamps . Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Administrative information by phone - Allô Service Public accès For more information on this subject, you can contact Allô Service Public. Attention: the service does not have access to users' personal files and therefore cannot provide information on their progress. horaires Lundi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Mardi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Mercredi : de 08h30 à 12h15 Jeudi : de 08h30 à 17h30 Vendredi : de 13h00 à 16h15 Request a call coût Service free service The informants who answer you belong to the Ministry of the Interior. Statute and miscellaneous references Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L412-7 to L412-10 Contract of commitment to respect the principles of the Republic Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L422-1 to L422-3 Temporary Student Residence Card Code on the Entry and Residence of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles L436-1 to L436-13 Taxes and stamp duty payable Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Article R422-7 Withdrawal of the student temporary residence card Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R432-1 to R432-15 Implied refusal to issue the residence card Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Articles R433-1 to 433-6 Renewal of temporary residence cards Code on the Entry and Stay of foreigners and the Right to Asylum: Annex 10 List of documents to be supplied: item 25 Instruction on applications for long-stay study visas long-stay visa for studies Online services and forms France-visas - Students Search tools Application for mobility in France from a student authorized to stay in Europe Form Apply for a student residence permit Online service Validate a long-stay visa as a residence permit (VLS-TS) and pay the tax Online service FAQ Which photo to provide for an identity document (passport, identity card...)? Application for a residence card: what proof of residence? Translation of a document: how to find a certified translator? Foreigner in France: how to buy a tax stamp? Can a non-European student work in France? What is the short-stay visa "student competition"? Additional topics Enrollment of a foreigner in higher education Service Public Visas and residence cards for students Agency Campus France Concerns foreigners who are not nationals of the European Union, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway Situation of a foreigner in possession of documents authorizing him to remain on French territory Formality by which a procedural document or decision is brought to the attention of a person Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
