What are the taxes paid by a foreigner in France? | Service Public Javascript est desactivé dans votre navigateur. Content Menu Search Footer République Française Ouvrir la recherche Menu Se connecter Accéder au site pour les entreprises Fermer Recherche Rechercher sur le site Fermer Accueil Actualité de vos droits et démarches Fiches pratiques par événement de vie Je déménage Je cherche un emploi Je deviens parent Je veux obtenir un crédit immobilier J'achète un logement Je prépare ma retraite Un proche est décédé Voir tous les événements de vie Fiches pratiques par thème Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Voir tous les thèmes Démarches, aides et outils Aides financières Démarches, cerfas, modèles de lettres et simulateurs Annuaire de l’administration Contacter Service Public Accéder au site pour les entreprises See the Breadcrumb Trail Home Money - Taxes - Consumption Income tax: return and income to be reported What are the taxes paid by a foreigner in France? This page has been automatically translated. Please refer to the page in French if needed. Focus EN - English EN - English FR - Français Share the page Facebook X Linkedin Email Share the link Link copied Le lien vers cette page a été envoyé avec succès aux destinataires. What are the taxes paid by a foreigner in France? Verified 01 January 2026 - Public Service / Directorate of Legal and Administrative Information (Prime Minister) Income tax: 2026 income tax return for 2025 This page is up to date at 1 er January 2026. However, forms, online services and information materials are not yet available for the 2026 tax year of the 2025 tax return. They will be put online as soon as they are available. In addition, the draft budget law for 2026 could not be promulgated before 1 er January 2026. The law n°2025-1316 of 26 december 2025 The Special Authorizes the Government to Collect Taxes, Without Modifying the Scales, Until the Adoption of a Budget Law for 2026. If the Finance Law for 2026 changes the rules presented on this page, the content will be updated after the publication of the Finance Law in the Official Journal. If you are a foreigner (European or of another nationality), you must pay taxes in France in certain situations. We provide you with useful information for income tax, housing tax on second homes, property tax and real estate wealth tax. Income tax Local taxes Tax on real estate wealth Income tax Unfold all What are the revenues of French origin for tax services? Your situation depends on where your income comes from. Some income is considered to be income of French origin if it is obtained for a activity in France . These include the following revenues: Wages Daily social security allowances (e.g. sickness, maternity) Unemployment benefits Income from independent professions (traders, liberal professions...). The following revenues are also concerned: Pensions and pensions paid by an organization located in France Income from savings or investments (interest, dividends, etc.) paid by an organization located in France Income from a property located in France (rental income, property income or capital gain in the event of sale). Who are the foreign persons affected by taxation in France? The taxation of your income in France depends on where you live. tax residence . If you are tax resident in France, you are subject to income tax in France for your income of french and foreign origin . If you're not not tax resident in France, you are subject to income tax in France for your income of french origin (subject to the tax treaty concluded between France and your State of residence). Tax services determine your tax residence based on your situation. Please note If you are in a couple (married or past), the tax services may consider you as a tax resident of France and your spouse as a non-resident. Whether you are French or not, tax services consider that your tax domicile is in France if you fill in one of the following criteria : Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement Your home is in France Your tax domicile is in France if the habitual residence of your household is France. Your home is made up of you and your family. The tax authority detains the following persons: Your married, past or common-law partner Your children. On the other hand, it does not retain your other relatives (parents, siblings, etc.) If you are single without children, your home is where you usually live, apart from your business trips. Your main residence is in France Your tax residence is in France if it is the place of your main stay, that is to say that you are staying there at least 183 days during the year therefore, more than 6 months. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). You work in France Your tax domicile is in France if you have your main activity there . The main activity is the one you spend the most effective time on or the one that provides you with the bulk of your income. If you have more than one activity, the main activity is taken into account. An activity carried out incidentally is not concerned. Please note Your tax domicile is in France if you are a manager of a company whose head office is in France and it has a turnover of more than 250 million euros. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). The center of your economic interests is in France Your tax domicile is considered in France if you've made your major investments there . Similarly, if the seat of your business, from where you administer your property, is in France. For income tax purposes, France means the following territories: Mainland France, coastal islands and Corsica Overseas Departments ( with peculiarities ). One international convention concluded between France and a foreigner country may provide for different rules. If necessary, check your situation with the tax authorities of the foreigner concerned. If you live in France and your spouse or partner Civil partnerships : titleContent to his tax domicile outside France (in application of a tax treaty ), you must report the following income: Your income and that of children and dependants who have their domicile in France The income from a French source of your spouse or partner of Civil partnerships domiciled outside France (provided that the tax is attributed to France by the tax convention). How can the risks of double taxation of income be avoided? It depends on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are a tax resident in France To find out your tax situation, check if France has signed a bilateral agreement with your country . Warning If no agreement has been signed, all your income are taxable in France, even if some are already taxed in their country of origin. You are a tax non-resident in France To find out your tax situation, check if France has signed a bilateral agreement with your country . If no agreement has been signed, you are taxable in France only on your income of french origin . FYI It is imperative that you contact the tax services of your State of residence in order to know your obligations. What is the situation of people who work in France without residing there? You are a frontier worker if you complete the 2 conditions following: You work in France You live in a border country (e.g. Germany or Italy). Income received in respect of an activity carried on abroad is, in principle, taxable abroad. However, by way of derogation, and as an application to specific agreements signed with certain countries (Germany, Belgium, Spain, Italy and Switzerland), the income received by frontier workers is taxable exclusively in their country of residence . For each of the countries concerned, the geographical definition of border area differs. Even if you pay your taxes in your country of residence, contact the personal income tax department in France for more information on your personal tax situation as a frontier worker . Who shall I contact Tax department (treasury, tax department...) How to declare your income in France when you are a foreigner? Your tax reporting obligations depend on your situation: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are a tax resident in France You must declare in France all your income , whether they are of French origin or of foreign origin. Check if a tax treaty sets out specific rules . Internet reporting is mandatory if your principal residence is equipped with internet access and that you are able to make your declaration online. In the event of non-compliance with the obligation to declare income via the internet, an increase of 0.2% the amount of tax payable is provided for, with a minimum of €60 . Your declaration is made from your online space: 2025 online 2024 income tax return (Individual section) Before validating your pre-filled return online, you must check the information provided and if necessary, correct and complete them. Keep the supporting documents for 3 years in the event of a request from the administration. If you need to file a paper return You can report your income on paper form if you are in one of the following situations : Your principal residence is not equipped with internet access Your main residence is equipped with internet access, but you are not able to file your declaration online. You are using the pre-filled paper return received in April/May. Depending on your situation, this is the declaration no. 2042 or No 2042 C . The declaration RICI No. 2042 includes major tax reductions and credits. If you do not receive a printout ( 1st declaration , change of address , change in family situation ), you can download the necessary declarations from the end of April/beginning of May on Service-Public.fr or on the tax website . Some income is to be reported on a annexed declaration . You can also download them online. The main ancillary declarations are as follows: Form 2044 for the declaration of property income Form 2074 for the declaration of capital gains Form 2047 for income received abroad. Before signing your declaration, you must check information indicated and, if necessary, correct and complete them. You must reach the supporting documents to your paper return only if it is a document drawn up by you (detailed list of your actual costs for example). However, keep the other supporting documents for 3 years in the event of a request from the administration. FYI You must use a paper return if you are reporting for the 1 re twice your income, and you weren't attached to your parents' return the previous year. You are a tax non-resident in France You must declare in France your income of french origin taxable in France. You must also contact the tax services of your State of residence to know your reporting obligations. Check if a tax treaty sets out specific rules . Internet reporting is mandatory if your principal residence is equipped with internet access and that you are able to make your declaration online. In the event of non-compliance with the obligation to declare income via the internet, an increase of 0.2% the amount of tax payable is provided for, with a minimum of €60 . Your declaration is made from your online space: 2025 online 2024 income tax return (Individual section) Before validating your pre-filled return online, you must check the information provided and if necessary, correct and complete them. Keep the supporting documents for 3 years in the event of a request from the administration. If you need to file a paper return You can report your income on paper form if you are in one of the following situations : Your principal residence is not equipped with internet access Your main residence is equipped with internet access, but you are not able to file your declaration online. You are using the pre-filled paper return received in April/May. Depending on your situation, this is the declaration no. 2042 or No 2042 C . The declaration RICI No. 2042 includes major tax reductions and credits. If you do not receive a printout ( 1st declaration , change of address , change in family situation ), you can download the necessary declarations from the end of April/beginning of May on Service-Public.fr or on the tax website . Some income is to be reported on a annexed declaration . You can also download them online. The main ancillary declarations are as follows: Form 2044 for the declaration of property income Form 2074 for the declaration of capital gains Form 2047 for income received abroad. Before signing your declaration, you must check information indicated and, if necessary, correct and complete them. You must reach the supporting documents to your paper return only if it is a document drawn up by you (detailed list of your actual costs for example). However, keep the other supporting documents for 3 years in the event of a request from the administration. FYI You must use a paper return if you are reporting for the 1 re twice your income, and you weren't attached to your parents' return the previous year. When should you declare your income in France when you are a foreigner? The declaration of income by internet is mandatory if your main residence has internet access and you are able to file your declaration online. The 2025 return of 2024 income is complete. The 2026 2025 income tax return will begin in April 2026. If you need to file a paper return The 2025 return of 2024 income is complete. The 2026 2025 income tax return will begin in April 2026. Local taxes Unfold all Housing tax on second homes You are subject to the housing tax if you occupy a secondary dwelling in France. Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are a tax resident in France You have to pay the housing tax for any accommodation secondary which you have personally in France at 1 er January, whether you own, rent or occupy for free. You are not a tax resident in France If you don't have your tax domicile in France but if you have a home, it is considered a second home. You have to pay the housing tax for the dwelling concerned. Property tax Whether your tax residence is in France or abroad, you have to pay property tax if you own a property in France at 1 er January of the year. If you own more than one property, you must pay the property tax due for each property. Tax on real estate wealth Your taxation at IFI : titleContent depends on your situation vis-à-vis the french tax services: Répondez aux questions successives et les réponses s’afficheront automatiquement You are a tax resident in France If your tax residence is in France, your taxable assets include your real estate located in France and abroad . You are subject to the IFI : titleContent when the net value of your real estate assets exceeds €1.3 million. You are a tax non-resident You are taxable at IFI : titleContent if you hold real estate assets located in France with a value exceeding EUR 1,3 million. Check if a tax treaty sets out specific rules . Who can help me? Find who can answer your questions in your region Search contact point Pivot Local Pivot Local What is your city or postal code ? Example: Sainte-Cécile-les-Vignes or 95200 Personal Income Tax Service (SIP) For general information Tax Information Service By phone: 0809 401 401 Monday to Friday from 8:30 am to 7 pm, excluding public holidays. Free service + price call To contact the local service managing your file Tax department (treasury, tax department...) To be helped in his statement France Services / House of services to the public Statute and miscellaneous references General Tax Code: Articles 4A to 8d Persons resident for tax purposes in France (Article 4 B) Online services and forms Taxes: access to your space Private Online service 2025 online 2024 income tax return (Individual section) Online service 2025 Income Tax Return 2024 (paper) Form Declaration of capital gains or losses on sales of securities made by impatriates Form 2025 return of 2024 income received abroad Form Calculation simulator for 2025: 2024 income tax Simulator FAQ Income tax - Who is taxable? How to determine your tax domicile? What is the principal residence for taxes? What is the deadline for filing your tax return? Additional topics Income tax: return and income to be reported Service Public Seize the tax administration (payment difficulties, complaint...) Service Public Income tax of French nationals abroad Service Public What is imposed in France Ministry of Finance I'm a non-resident. Do I have to declare income and pay taxes in France? Ministry of Finance In which European country are you taxable? European Union Double taxation in Europe European Union Tax treaties signed by France Ministry of Finance Am I a frontier worker? Ministry of Finance Do I have to pay local taxes? Ministry of Finance 2025 Practical Brochure - 2024 Income Tax Return Ministry of Finance Tax status of international civil servants Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact IFI : Tax on real estate wealth Guadeloupe, French Guiana, Martinique, Mayotte, Reunion Login with the username and password of one of the following accounts: Impots.gouv, Ameli, L'identite numérique (La Poste), Yris, MSA, France identité or TrustMe Civil partnerships : Civil Solidarity Pact IFI : Tax on real estate wealth Recevoir la lettre de Service Public Abonnement hebdomadaire gratuit S’abonner Lire la dernière lettre Voir toutes les lettres Suivez-nous sur les réseaux sociaux Facebook TikTok LinkedIn Instagram YouTube Fiches pratiques par thèmes Papiers - Citoyenneté - Élections Famille - Scolarité Social - Santé Travail - Formation Logement Transports - Mobilité Argent - Impôts - Consommation Justice Étranger - Europe Loisirs - Sports - Culture Associations, fondations et fonds de dotation Démarches et outils Démarches en ligne Formulaires administratifs (cerfas) Simulateurs Modèles de lettres Outils de recherche Allo Service Public Annuaire de l'administration Nous connaître Chiffres Mise à disposition des données Missions et valeurs Aide Vous êtes une administration ? Vous êtes journaliste ? Contacter Service Public République Française Service Public vous informe et vous oriente vers les services qui permettent de connaître vos obligations, d’exercer vos droits et de faire vos démarches du quotidien. Il est édité par la Direction de l’information légale et administrative et réalisé en partenariat avec les administrations nationales et locales. legifrance.gouv.fr info.gouv.fr data.gouv.fr Nos partenaires Plan du site Accessibilité : totalement conforme Accessibilité des services en ligne Mentions légales Données personnelles et sécurité Conditions générales d'utilisation Gestion des cookies Sauf mention contraire, tous les contenus de ce site sont sous licence etalab-2.0
