Hiring of staff to content Accesskey [1] to menu Accesskey [2] to submenu Accesskey [3] to search Accesskey [4] News Topics Services About Support display search log in My account (logged in) Logged in as ( in procuration for ) To My Business Service Portal ("Mein USP") Display user account Company data Log out Selected language: EN Deutsch display navigation search search start page Employees & health Employees and types of employment Hiring of staff Taxes & Finance Employees & health Employees and types of employment Hiring of staff Employees Independent contractors Marginally employed persons Foreign workers Commission Types of employment Further information on hiring staff Further information on foreign workers Further information on work and disability Apprenticeship Leave and working time Remuneration Parental leave and part-time Representation of interests Health Termination of an employment relationship Business & Environment External Trade Change & Dissolution Hiring of staff When hiring employees, a company enters into an employment relationship with them. The principle of equal treatment must be observed from the time the job is advertised until the employment relationship is terminated. Once a suitable person has been found, a contract of employment must be concluded and, if necessary, a notice of employment must be issued. Before the person starts working, the employer must register him or her with the social security system . In the case of foreign workers , attention must be paid to whether they have access to the labor market and, if so, what kind of access: Workers from EU member states and the three remaining EEA states, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein, have free access to the Austrian labor market and do not require authorization from the labor market authorities to work (they enjoy freedom of movement for workers). Swiss nationals are on an equal footing with them and also do not require authorization from the labor market authorities. In contrast, workers from third countries are only allowed to work in Austria ( e.g. in the context of an employment relationship, employment-like relationship, training relationship) under certain conditions. Tip In addition to private job platforms ( → oesterreich.gv.at) , the following offices provide support in the search for personnel : Regional offices of the Public Employment Service Austria ( AMS ). Online job exchange: E-Job-Room ( → AMS ) German text . For finding qualified workers from across the EEA : The network of European Employment Services, EURES ( → EC ) , provides access to approximately 950,000 registered job seekers or their CVs. EURES offers are also available at all regional AMS offices. Job advertisement Sorry, this content isn’t available in English yet. Not all of our contents and services are available in English yet. We ask for your under­standing and like to assure that we are steadily working on extending our English offer. Social insurance Sorry, this content isn’t available in English yet. Not all of our contents and services are available in English yet. We ask for your under­standing and like to assure that we are steadily working on extending our English offer. Employment contract Sorry, this content isn’t available in English yet. Not all of our contents and services are available in English yet. We ask for your under­standing and like to assure that we are steadily working on extending our English offer. People with disabilities Sorry, this content isn’t available in English yet. Not all of our contents and services are available in English yet. We ask for your under­standing and like to assure that we are steadily working on extending our English offer. Further links Your Europe Business ( → EU ) (Regulations in other EU Member States) Employment contracts ( → EURES ) Translated by the European Commission Last update: 1 January 2025 Responsible for the content: Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health, Care and Consumer Protection USP Editorial Staff Rate this page and help us to improve. Feedback News News News articles News series Legal news Topics Topics Overview Taxes & Finances Electronic delivery Services Services Mein USP e-start-up eProcurement Help & Support Help & Support Help portal Sign up for Mein USP First steps in Mein USP Language selection: English Deutsch Privacy Statement / Accessibility / Publishing Information back display search close navigation search search Aktuelles Themen Services Über das USP Hilfe & Support Language selection: English Deutsch
