Welcome to the Federal Government‘s Official Information Website on Migration to Austria! "Easy-to-read" information is available in German. Jump to content | Jump to help navigation | Jump to main navigation | Jump to sub navigation | Jump to services | Jump to search | Jump to hotline | Jump to footer Welcome! Very Highly Qualified Workers Your guide to the Job Seeker Visa & residence permit for Very Highly Qualified Workers. Shortage occupations The Red-White-Red Card for Skilled Workers in Shortage Occupations. Other key workers You already have a job offer? Find out how to apply for a Red-White-Red Card. Start-up founders You have developted an idea for an innovative product and want to realize it in Austria? Graduates Taking up employment after your university education in Austria. Family reunification How to bring your family to Austria. EU Citizens Living and working in Austria for EU citizens. Very Highly Qualified Workers Your guide to the Job Seeker Visa & residence permit for Very Highly Qualified Workers. Very Highly Qualified Workers Shortage occupations The Red-White-Red Card for Skilled Workers in Shortage Occupations. Skilled Workers in Shortage Occupations Other key workers You already have a job offer? Find out how to apply for a Red-White-Red Card. Other Key Workers Start-up founders You have developted an idea for an innovative product and want to realize it in Austria? Start-up Founders Graduates Taking up employment after your university education in Austria. Graduates of Austrian universities and universities of applied sciences Family reunification How to bring your family to Austria. EU Citizens Living and working in Austria for EU citizens. Mobility of EU citizens and their family members within the EU Welcome to the Federal Government‘s Official Information Website on Migration to Austria! Austria's flexible immigration model, the Red-White-Red Card, offers qualified third-country workers and their family members a single permit for working and settling permanently in Austria. On these pages, you can find important information on the Red-White-Red Card, on general immigration requirements and on Austrian working and living conditions. Use the Points Calculator to check whether you would fulfil the admission criteria! ABA WORK in AUSTRIA: counselling center for companies and skilled workers Companies and foreign employes can turn to the ABA WORK in AUSTRIA and will be supported in the Red-White-Red – Card procedure. The ABA WORK in AUSTRIA and its employees have no party status in the official procedure. However, they are entitled to obtain information about the status of the procedure, about missing or incomplete documents and about the expected duration of the procedure from the competent authorities, i.e. both the offices of the Public Employment Service and the residence authorities, with a power of attorney from the party(ies) involved in the procedure. They are also entitled to inspect the procedural files in this regard. On its web portal, ABA WORK in AUSTRIA offers a wealth off information on working in Austria, on job opportunities and career possibilities, as well as support and guidance on all the steps required to enter the Austrian labour market. Help navigation: Sitemap Points calculator Frequently Asked Questions Mainnavigation: Types of immigration Living and working in Austria Service and links FAQ Deutsch --> Sub navigation: Service Red-White-Red Card FAQ Points calculator Addresses and links Downloads Search QuickCheck In Austria, I´d like to... work move to my familiy study start a business Start Footer: Sitemap Privacy Statement Contact Editorial
