Study in Austria "Easy-to-read" information is available in German. Jump to content | Jump to help navigation | Jump to main navigation | Jump to sub navigation | Jump to services | Jump to search | Jump to hotline | Jump to footer Living and working in Austria Study in Austria Study in Austria Please Note: Persons who are neither EEA citizens nor Swiss, and who do not already have a right of residence or a residence title in Austria for any other reason, require a residence permit to study in Austria. Requirements for the admission to Austrian universities The following requirements must be fulfilled for the matriculation of a foreign citizen (or a stateless person) as a regular student in Austrian university degree programmes: A place to study has to be available at the university for the desired course of studies. The applicant must have an A-level or high school diploma , that can be considered equivalent to an Austrian Matura examination certification (either regulated by an agreement or in individual cases decided by the vice chancellor, possibly with certain requirements) or furnish proof of completion of a three-year (minimum) study at another certified post-secondary educational institution. The certification must be sufficient for acceptance to the desired course of study at a university in the country in which it was acquired. Any study-related requirements (e.g. entrance examination) must be fulfilled in the country in which the A-level or high school diploma was issued. If the desired course of study in Austria is not offered in the home country, then this proof is to be furnished regarding the most similar course of study . Only if the country does not have a university, this proof does not have to be submitted. In addition, the applicant must have sufficient German knowledge . If necessary, an examination is to be taken. Deadline At the latest by 5 September or 5 February every year for the following semester. Exceptions To EU and EEA citizens , the same application periods apply as to Austrian residents. At the universities of the arts, the same application periods apply to foreigners as to Austrian residents, and admission is based on the entrance examination. Please note: Only those foreigners who come to Austria for a short time in the context of an Erasmus programme (and thus do not intend to complete an entire course of study) do not need to take an entrance examination. Responsible Authority The respective university (the decision is made by the vice chancellor). Required Documents Passport, identity card or proof of citizenship in combination with an official identification with photo A-levels, high school diploma or equivalent certification Transcript with grades from the last school year Various filled-out forms: Application form for admission Registration form Form for statistics Student document of identification with photograph attached Form for continuation Second photograph Bank receipt indicating payment of the per semester tuition fee if the applicant is not otherwise exempt Please note: All documents are to be submitted in the original and in a German translation which was publicly authenticated in the originating country and was last authenticated by the Austrian representation in that country. The last authentication is not necessary in those countries whose public authentication is recognised by Austria because of treaty agreements. Admission restrictions Admission restrictions may be in effect for the following courses of study: Medicine Other medical courses Psychology Veterinary medicine Dentistry Bachelor studies as of the year 2010/2011 "Journalism and Communication Studies" (University of Vienna) "Communication Studies" (University of Salzburg) "Media and Communication Studies" (University of Klagenfurt) Courses of study in especially high demand (according to article 14 University Act 2002) The vice-chancellor of the respective university decides on the type of admission procedure. This can be implemented either before the studies are begun or after the admission within the first two semesters. Usually, selection procedures take place before admission. Please contact the respective universities for further information. Please note: EU citizens are in principle on an equal footing with Austrian citizens. Tuition fee As of summer semester 2013, the following provisions on the university tuition fee are applicable: Regular students with EU/EEA citizenship and persons enjoying equal rights as Austrians before the law (permanent residents, residence in Austria of at least five years before start of studies, etc.) have to pay a tuition fee of €363.36 per semester if they exceed the minimum period of study of a BA, MA or PhD programme by more than two semesters. Students from third countries have to pay a tuition fee of €726.72 per semester . Irregular students who are only admitted to certain lectures have to pay a tuition fee of €363.36 per semester irrespective of their citizenship. Please note: The tuition fee has to be paid only once per semester, even if several courses of study are followed concurrently at several universities. Health insurance Co-insurance If you fulfil the prerequisites for co-insurance (under 27 years of age, proof of achievement similar to family allowance), then you can apply to be co-insured with your parents (also grandparents or step-parents), or with your spouse. Please note: Co-insurance of children in training is possible, at the longest, up to the age of (including) 26 years, if they are not insured themselves. Student insurance If no other insurance protection is available, then the student has the possibility to insure himself/herself at a preferential rate (in 2025: € 73,48 per month). Requirements Total income of less than € 10,000 per year Adherence to the duration requirement (minimum period plus one semester per study period plus four semesters) At most two course of study changes No completed course of study Voluntary self-insurance If none of the above-mentioned possibilities is applicable, you can insure yourself with voluntary self-insurance. In order not to be immediately classified at the maximum rate, you should apply for reduction of the fee basis directly with the application for voluntary self-insurance. Please note: All these insurance possibilities are only available by applying to a health insurance institution . They must be renewed after each break during the study (e.g. in the case of obligatory insurance with a holiday job). &raquo; mehr lesen 3501 Labour market access for students If you are a student with citizenship from a third country, you are subject to the Act Governing the Employment of Foreign Nationals and require an employment permit (Beschäftigungsbewilligung). This also applies to marginal employment. As a student you can receive an employment permit for employment of up to 20 hours a week without a labour market test. Companies have to apply for this employment permit at the Public Employment Service (Arbeitsmarktservice - AMS). Another provision for an employment permit is that the primary purpose of stay is not jeopardized. PLEASE NOTE: After having successfully completed a programme of studies in Austria, you can switch from the residence permit "Students" to the Red-White-Red Card. Upon graduation you can file for a one-time renewal of your residence permit for a period of twelve months for your job search or starting a business in Austria. Universities of applied sciences Courses at universities of applied sciences (Fachhochschul-Studiengänge) were created as an independent supplement and alternative to the existing courses of study at universities. Particular features of this type of education are: Profession-oriented and experience-oriented organisation Fixed study duration – six semesters (bachelor study) and two to four semesters (master study) – obligatory attendance Award of an academic degree to the graduates Students at universities of applied sciences are on an equal footing with students at other universities. Measures concerning academic subsidies or subsidies of studies abroad also apply to students at universities of applied sciences. Please note: Since 1996, certain courses of study have also been offered for employed persons (work and study in contrast to full-time study). Further information and useful links Links Overview of all universities (German) General information on attending university is provided by the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Research. Specific information for foreign students on studying in Austria is provided by the Austrian Exchange Service (OEAD) and on the website Study in Austria . Information regarding the recognition of exams, report cards, and other matters in the field of higher education is provided by the National Academic Recognition and Information Centre (ENIC NARIC Austria). Information and counselling for students regarding topics such as health insurance, work, funding, etc. is provided by the Austrian National Student Union (Österreichische Hochschülerschaft). Information regarding universities of applied sciences can be found here . Study Guide Student Housing Service - Home4students Top Help navigation: Sitemap Points calculator Frequently Asked Questions Mainnavigation: Types of immigration Living and working in Austria Service and links FAQ Deutsch --> Sub navigation: Austria at a glance Integration and citizenship Working Children and education Study in Austria Housing Health Language Service Red-White-Red Card FAQ Points calculator Addresses and links Downloads Search QuickCheck In Austria, I´d like to... work move to my familiy study start a business Start Footer: Sitemap Privacy Statement Contact Editorial
