Living and working in Austria "Easy-to-read" information is available in German. Jump to content | Jump to help navigation | Jump to main navigation | Jump to sub navigation | Jump to services | Jump to search | Jump to hotline | Jump to footer Living and working in Austria Living and working in Austria This section will help you gain insight into the central spheres of Austria’s public and private life and into working life in Austria. All topics also contain a list of links to other websites, so further details will be easy to find. The chapter Austria at a glance provides basic information on the Republic of Austria – from its geography and population, politics, economy and transportation to the system of social security, income and taxes and the most significant data on the labour market. The chapter on integration and citizenship provides information on the integration agreement and on the Austrian citizenship. The chapter on working provides information on the most important aspects of the different forms of employment and on working relations (e.g. work contracts, wages and salaries and the protection of employees). The chapter on children and education does not only explain the Austrian education system but also offers advice concerning suitable schools and child care. The chapter on housing explains how to find an apartment, house or flat and what to bear in mind when concluding a lease contract. The chapter on health provides information on Austria’s healthcare system. The chapter on language explains the significance of language acquisition for successful integration and gives an overview of funding opportunities. Help navigation: Sitemap Points calculator Frequently Asked Questions Mainnavigation: Types of immigration Living and working in Austria Service and links FAQ Deutsch --> Sub navigation: Austria at a glance Integration and citizenship Working Children and education Study in Austria Housing Health Language Service Red-White-Red Card FAQ Points calculator Addresses and links Downloads Search QuickCheck In Austria, I´d like to... work move to my familiy study start a business Start Footer: Sitemap Privacy Statement Contact Editorial
