Other Key Workers "Easy-to-read" information is available in German. Jump to content | Jump to help navigation | Jump to main navigation | Jump to sub navigation | Jump to services | Jump to search | Jump to hotline | Jump to footer Types of immigration Permanent immigration Other Key Workers Other Key Workers If you are a third-country citizen who is to take up employment with a company in Austria as a key worker you may apply for a Red-White-Red -Card valid for 24 months if you meet the following requirements: Your prospective employer will pay the statutory minimum of € 3,465 (2026) gross monthly payments no equally qualified person registered as a jobseeker at the Public Employment Service (AMS) can be placed (labour market test/Arbeitsmarktprüfung) and you reach a minimum of 55 points according to the following list of criteria: Eligibility criteria for key workers Points Qualification Maximum allowable points: 30 Completed vocational education/training or special know-how or skills* in the prospective occupation 20 General eligibility for university admission 25 Completion of a programme of studies with a minimum duration of three years at an institution of tertiary education 30 Work experience Maximum allowable points: 20 Work experience (per half-year) 1 Work experience in Austria (per half-year) 2 Language skills Maximum allowable points: 25 Elementary use of the German language on a basic level (A1 level) 5 German language skills for the intensified elementary use of the language (A2 level) 10 German language skills for the independent use of the language (B1 level) 15 English language skills for the intensified elementary use of the language (A2 level) 5 English language skills for the independent use of the language (B1 level) 10 French language skills for the independent use of the language (B1 level) 5 Spanish language skills for the independent use of the language (B1 level) 5 Bosnian, Kroatian or Serbian language skills for the independent use of the language (B1 level) 5 Age Maximum allowable points: 15 Under 30 years of age 15 Under 40 years of age 10 Sum total of maximum allowable points: 90 Additional points for English language skills, if English is the predominant language of the respective company 5 Bonus points for professional athletes and professional sports coaches 20 Required minimum: 55 * Key workers with special know-how or skills do not have to furnish proof that they have completed formal training (e.g. musicians, designers or professional athletes). Where to file the application? Either you can file the application for the Red-White-Red Card personally with the Austrian representation (embassy or consulate) of your country of residence or your potential employer may file it with the competent residence authority in Austria (Provincial Governor/Landeshauptmann/Landeshauptfrau), authorised Regional Administrative Authority/Bezirkshauptmannschaft or the Local Administrative Authority/Magistrat). An employer’s declaration ( Arbeitgebererklärung ) with specific details concerning your future place of employment has to be submitted along with the application. After legal entry and during legal stay you may also file your application directly with the competent residence authority in Austria (Provincial Governor, authorised Regional Administrative Authority or Local Administrative Authority). Please note: If you want to make use of legal representation in your legal procedure, please make sure that your Austrian representative is licensed to do so. Otherwise your representative cannot be accepted by the Austrian authorities. Which documents to submit? Valid travel document (e.g. passport) Photo (dimensions: 45x35mm) which is not older than six months Evidence of health insurance covering all risks (compulsory health insurance or equivalent insurance policy) The authority may also require you to submit other documents on a case by case basis. Many authorities require, for example, that a current criminal record extract from the applicant's country of origin or previous habitual residence be submitted as part of an initial application. It is recommended that the extract be no more than three months old. A criminal record extract is an official confirmation of a person's previous convic-tions or convictions that have been entered in the criminal register to date. The country of origin is the country of which the applicant is a national. If this person has lived in another country for more than 6 months prior to their stay in Austria, they will need a criminal record certificate from that country. You have to submit the following documents for examination of the individual criteria under the points system (see above): 1. Qualification Vocational education/training Certificate or diploma of completed vocational education/training Proof of eligibility for admission to university (Matura, Abitur , matriculation certificate) Certificate furnishing proof of general eligibility for admission to university Graduation Document furnishing proof of successful completion of a three-year programme at a university or another institution of tertiary education Document reflecting the status of the university or other institution of tertiary education 2. Work experience Testimonials and work certificates 3. Language skills Language diploma or language course certificate at the A1, A2 or B1 levels of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages for German or the A2 or B1 levels for English. The certificate should not be older than five years. German language diplomas and certificates may in particular be obtained from the following institutions: ÖSD, Goethe-Institut, Telc GmbH, Austrian Integration Fund (ÖIF) The following diplomas and certificates in particular are recognised as evidence of proficiency in English: Cambridge Certificate, TELC, IELTS diploma, TOEIC diploma, TOEFL diploma. 4. Professional athletes or professional sports coaches Testimonials and work certificates Please note: You have to submit originals and copies of the above-mentioned documents. If the documents are not available in German or English, translations into German or English must be provided. For review purposes, the authority may eventually require legalized versions of the documents. Do I have to go through a formal recognition procedure in Austria? Formal recognition is ONLY required for so-called regulated professions. By law, regulated professions can only be practised if the corresponding qualifications have been formally recognised. This applies, for example, to all health professions, to employment as a teacher at a public school, as a nursery school teacher or as a lawyer. The website Berufsanerkennung.at can help you find out whether your profession is regulated in Austria and, if so, which body is responsible for recognition. For most professions, you do NOT need formal recognition and NO equivalence to an Austrian apprenticeship-leave exam. When you apply for a Red-White-Red card, your qualification will be assessed on the basis of the documents you submit. When will a Red-White-Red Card be issued? The Austrian representation or residence authority will send your application and supporting documents to the AMS. The AMS will examine if you have reached the required number of points, if your prospective salary conforms with the statutory minimum (see above) and if no equally qualified person registered as a jobseeker can be placed. If all requirements are met, the AMS will send confirmation to the residence authority which will then issue the Red-White-Red Card, provided that the general requirements under Austrian settlement and residence law are met (health insurance coverage). If your application is approved, you will be notified by the Austrian representative authorities. If you are subject to visa requirements, you have to apply for a category D visa for the purpose of entering Austria to collect your residence title. As a holder of the Red-White-Red Card you are entitled to fixed-term settlement and employment by the employer specified in the application. The Red-White-Red Card is generally issued for a period of 24 months. You can also work self-employed, if this employment is subsidiary and all other legal requirements are fulfilled. When will a Red-White-Red Card plus be issued? You may apply for a Red-White-Red Card plus with the competent residence authority in Austria (Provincial Governor, authorised Regional Administrative Authority or Local Administrative Authority) if you were employed in accordance with the eligibility criteria for a minimum of 21 months during the preceding 24 months, to be assessed by the AMS. If you are a holder of the Red-White-Red Card plus you are entitled fixed-term settlement and unlimited labour market access. You can find more information on the Red-White-Red Card plus here . Example “Other Key Workers” A company wants to employ a Director of Sales and has found no suitable person for this specific job in the Austrian labour market. The Canadian applicant for this position is 43 years old, a university graduate and has over 9 years of work experience in Canada. His native language is English. He receives 30 points for completing his studies, 18 points for work experience and 10 points for his language skills. Since he would receive 58 points and therefore exceed the minimum number of points, which is 55 points, he can apply for the Red-White-Red Card. Image courtesy of WKÖ Further information and useful links Fees Application fee: € 218 Forms Application form and Employer's declaration (Arbeitgebererklärtung) (German) Laws and provisions Settlement and Residence Act (German) Act Governing the Employment of Foreign Nationals (pdf - 649 KB; English) Visa requirements (German) Links Common European Framework of Reference for Languages Austrian consular representations Professional Recognition in Austria Contact point (recognition of qualifications) &raquo; mehr lesen 2943 Top Help navigation: Sitemap Points calculator Frequently Asked Questions Mainnavigation: Types of immigration Living and working in Austria Service and links FAQ Deutsch --> Sub navigation: Mobility within the EU Permanent immigration Very Highly Qualified Workers Skilled Workers in Shortage Occupations Austria-wide shortage occupations Regional shortage occupations Other Key Workers Regular Workers in Tourism, Agriculture and Forestry Self-employed Key Workers Start-up Founders EU Blue Card Red-White-Red Card plus Family reunification Graduates Other forms of settlement Temporary residence Fixed-term employment Service Red-White-Red Card FAQ Points calculator Addresses and links Downloads Search QuickCheck In Austria, I´d like to... work move to my familiy study start a business Start Footer: Sitemap Privacy Statement Contact Editorial
