Health insurance "Easy-to-read" information is available in German. Jump to content | Jump to help navigation | Jump to main navigation | Jump to sub navigation | Jump to services | Jump to search | Jump to hotline | Jump to footer Living and working in Austria Health Health insurance Health insurance Compulsory health insurance Compulsory health insurance applies to almost all those in paid employment (see also section on types of employment ) most self-employed persons persons claiming unemployment benefits pensioners dependants of all these groups Anyone can seek voluntary cover for health and pension insurance. Patients themselves must pay for a few services (e.g. treatment by private doctors, in private hospitals, orthodontic treatments, dental bridges, etc.). However, part of the costs will be reimbursed by their health insurance fund (Krankenkasse ). In the event of hospitalisation, a certain sum is payable by the patient for each day spent in hospital. Insurance of dependants In Austria, both insured persons and their dependants are entitled to benefits. These are: spouses, registered partners and – under certain circumstances – life companions children up to age of 18 children up to age of 21 if not in employment children up to age of 26 if following a course of study Children can be included in the insurance free of charge. This also applies to spouses, registered partners and life companions in families with children. Please note: Special provisions apply to childless spouses; inclusion in the insurance is subject to a charge. Benefits The insured and his/her dependants are entitled to receive medical care from a general practitioner, specialist or dentist who has a contract with the health insurance fund. A list of such doctors is available from the health insurance fund. Medicines are prescribed by the practitioner and dispensed at pharmacies. One has to pay a prescription charge of € 7.55 ( 2026 ) per item. One can claim exemption if one’s income falls below a certain minimum amount. There is an annual charge for the e-card (social insurance card). For the year 2026: € 25.00 (exceptions apply). Continued remuneration If an employee is unable to work owing to an illness that is not the result of his/her own negligence, the employer will normally continue to pay his/her wages/salary for up to twelve weeks. After that, sickness benefit will be paid by the health insurance fund until the incapacity for work has been certified as ended. Sickness benefit does not correspond to the amount of the wage/salary. Persons requiring long-term care as a result of illness or disability are eligible for a care allowance. Applications for care allowance must be made to the relevant health insurance fund. Depending on the need for care, a distinction is drawn between seven different levels of care. &raquo; mehr lesen 3502 Further information and useful links Links Information on health insurance (English) Sickness benefit (German) Health insurance institution ("Österreichische Gesundheitskasse", German) Top Help navigation: Sitemap Points calculator Frequently Asked Questions Mainnavigation: Types of immigration Living and working in Austria Service and links FAQ Deutsch --> Sub navigation: Austria at a glance Integration and citizenship Working Children and education Study in Austria Housing Health Health insurance Language Service Red-White-Red Card FAQ Points calculator Addresses and links Downloads Search QuickCheck In Austria, I´d like to... work move to my familiy study start a business Start Footer: Sitemap Privacy Statement Contact Editorial
