Homepage of oesterreich.gv.at to content Accesskey [1] to menu Accesskey [2] to search Accesskey [4] Change language English Deutsch English Life situations Services Topics Help Mein Postkorb Login Menu Information and Services of the Austrian Public Administration Search for ... Information and Services of the Austrian Public Administration Information and Services of the Austrian Public Administration Simple and secure access to even more digital services Austria is taking the next step towards the digital future of public administration. Learn more Popular and Frequently Searched Topics Marriage Engagement, getting married, registering for marriage, civil and religious wedding ceremonies and more Motor vehicle registration Registration and deregistration, inspections ("Pickerl"), license plates, taxes, vehicle type approvals and more Long-term care allowance Overview, benefit amounts, how to apply and more Driving licence Training, acquisition, provisional licence, licence categories, penalties and suspensions, demerit points system and more Family Bonus Plus Eligibility, application, distribution between parents, additional child benefit Passport Reissuance, passport for minors, emergency passport, lost/stolen passport and more ID Austria ID Austria allows you to securely prove your identity online. It lets you access digital services and conclude contracts electronically. Learn more ID Austria ID Austria allows you to securely prove your identity online. It lets you access digital services and conclude contracts electronically. Learn more Featured: eID App "eAusweise" With the "eAusweise" app, you can now present your driving licence and proof of age easily, securely and digitally using your smartphone. In future, you will also be able to present additional official documents with "eAusweise". Learn more Featured: eID App "eAusweise" With the "eAusweise" app, you can now present your driving licence and proof of age easily, securely and digitally using your smartphone. In future, you will also be able to present additional official documents with "eAusweise". Learn more Digital Austria Servicestelle Die Digital Austria Servicestelle unterstützt beim Einstieg in die ID Austria und bei der Nutzung digitaler Verwaltungsservices – persönlich, verständlich und direkt vor Ort. Mehr zur Digital Austria Servicestelle Digital Austria Servicestelle Die Digital Austria Servicestelle unterstützt beim Einstieg in die ID Austria und bei der Nutzung digitaler Verwaltungsservices – persönlich, verständlich und direkt vor Ort. Mehr zur Digital Austria Servicestelle About oesterreich.gv.at Federal Government Request certificate PDF Signature Request electoral card Change of residence Pregnancy and birth Passport Form search Search for authorities Glossary Legal changes Electronic delivery Birth Motor vehicle Driver&#x27;s license Help Privacy statement Accessibility declaration Imprint Image credits
