BAMF - Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge - Homepage Site navigation and service Go to: Content Main menu Search Service menu Contact English Deutsch Türkçe Русский Français العربية Main menu Topics Submenu from: Topics Information collection Careers Submenu from: Careers The press The authority Submenu from: The authority Sitemap Menu Search Hauptthemen der Website Putting people first: providing security, creating opportunities, embracing change : Migration & residence Migration & residence : Planning to come and work in Germany, or to join your spouse or your family? Or would you like to study at a German University? Visit our section on “Migration and residence”, and you will find out about the various different preconditions for living in Germany. You can also find out here about the right to asylum. Integration Integration : Thinking about relocating to Germany? Recently moved to Germany and count on staying here permanently? The section on "Integration" is full of information and tips about where to find more information, telephone numbers and contact addresses. All of this is intended to help you feel at home in Germany soon. Asylum and international protection "Persons persecuted on political grounds shall have the right of asylum" : The information on this page is currently being updated. Return Voluntary return to countries of origin : The Federal Office is responsible for planning and implementing programmes to promote voluntary return and reintegration. You will find information here on return programmes and contacts. An Authority in Transition - The Federal Office turns 70 The Federal Office The Southern Barracks The Federal Office for Migration and Refugees - reliably changing. Zitat With its extensive portfolio of activities, the BAMF is vital to immigration and social cohesion in Germany today. Dr. Hans Eckhard Sommer President of the BAMF Service Center Service for citizens Service for other authorities Advice at local level Where can I find an integration course near me? Where can I find a migration advice center in my city? Where are integration projects? BAMF-NAvI leads you to diverse integration offers close to home. BAMF-NAvI Topics - Hotlines Our employees in the service teams answer your questions and advise you on specialist topics in various languages. Hotline Working and Living in Germany Advice Centre on Radicalisation Nationwide return hotline Frequently asked questions and answers What is meant by good prospects to remain? All questions and answers Page functions and information Link to social media Facebook To the BAMF account on Instagram To the BAMF account on LinkedIn To the BAMF account on Bluesky To the BAMF account on Mastodon To the BAMF account on Threads To the BAMF account on Xing To the BAMF account on Vimeo Newsletter FAQs & Contact Page functions To the Top Subnavigation of all website sections Topics Migration and residence Integration Asylum and international protection Return Service Service for citizens Advice at local level Service for other authorities Topics - Hotlines FAQs Imprint Data protection Accessibility User notes Sitemap © 2026 Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Note on the use of cookies Cookies make it easier for us to provide our services. When you use our services, you consent to us using cookies.” OK Survey of economic migrants starts in mid-March As part of the evaluation of the Act on the Further Development of Skilled Labour Immigration (FEG 2.0) , a survey of immigrants living in Germany since 2024 for employment and employment-related educational purposes will start on 16 March. The evaluation project is a cooperation between the BAMF Research Centre and the Institute for Employment Research (IAB). Further information can be found at the website of the Institute for Employment Research . close
