BAMF - Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge - Education Site navigation and service Go to: Content Main menu Search Service menu Contact English Deutsch Türkçe Русский Français العربية Main menu Topics Submenu from: Topics Information collection Careers Submenu from: Careers The press The authority Submenu from: The authority Sitemap Menu Search You are here: Homepage Topics Migration and residence Immigrants from third countries Education Education Germany offers a broad variety of vocational and academic training measures, reflecting the strength of its economy and its contribution to international research and science. This content is also available in Deutsch Coming to Germany for educational purposes 01.03.2024 Germany offers a broad variety of vocational and academic training measures, reflecting the strength of its economy and its contribution to international research and science. Link to the information hotline &#034;working and living in Germany&#034; Source: © Make it in Germany Are you interested in education and highly motivated? Then you have excellent prospects of attending an educational establishment in Germany. You can take a degree, undergo in-company or school-based vocational training or attend a language course. It is also possible to attend school as an exchange pupil. After successfully completing vocational training or a degree course, your stay in Germany can be extended to enable you to look for a job matching your qualifications. You can find further information on the underlying conditions under the respective types of education measures. School exchanges and attending school There are various ways in which you or your children can attend school in Germany. Coming to Germany for vocational training It is possible for you to come to Germany and learn an occupation here. Two forms of training are available: school-based vocational training and in-company basic and further training. Studying in Germany You can come to Germany to study here as long as you are admitted to a full-time course of study by a higher education institution. You must also be able to support yourself. Attending a language course in Germany Several options are available to you in Germany if you would like to learn German or brush up on the German that you already know. Sub-pages on this topic Direkt zu School exchanges and attending school Vocational training Studying Language courses Page functions and information Link to social media Facebook To the BAMF account on Instagram To the BAMF account on LinkedIn To the BAMF account on Bluesky To the BAMF account on Mastodon To the BAMF account on Threads To the BAMF account on Xing To the BAMF account on Vimeo Newsletter FAQs & Contact Page functions Subnavigation of all website sections Topics Migration and residence Integration Asylum and international protection Return Service Service for citizens Advice at local level Service for other authorities Topics - Hotlines FAQs Imprint Data protection Accessibility User notes Sitemap © 2026 Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Note on the use of cookies Cookies make it easier for us to provide our services. When you use our services, you consent to us using cookies.” OK Survey of economic migrants starts in mid-March As part of the evaluation of the Act on the Further Development of Skilled Labour Immigration (FEG 2.0) , a survey of immigrants living in Germany since 2024 for employment and employment-related educational purposes will start on 16 March. The evaluation project is a cooperation between the BAMF Research Centre and the Institute for Employment Research (IAB). Further information can be found at the website of the Institute for Employment Research . close
