BAMF - Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge - Work Site navigation and service Go to: Content Main menu Search Service menu Contact English Deutsch Türkçe Русский Français العربية Main menu Topics Submenu from: Topics Information collection Careers Submenu from: Careers The press The authority Submenu from: The authority Sitemap Menu Search You are here: Homepage Topics Migration and residence Immigrants from third countries Work Working in Germany If you wish to come to Germany from a third country to work, you will find the necessary information here. This content is also available in Deutsch Working in Germany 01.03.2024 If you wish to come to Germany from a third country to work, you will find the necessary information here. Skilled workers with vocational training If you have acquired a professional qualification, you can look for a job in Germany and obtain a residence permit allowing you to take up employment. Skilled workers with an academic education If you have already graduated with a degree, several options are open to you for coming to Germany. Skilled workers without training If you have not completed qualified vocational training or an academic education, under certain circumstances you can still enter Germany as a skilled worker and work here. Scientists There are various different ways in which researchers can enter Germany for the purposes of teaching and researching. Intra-corporate transfer If you are already employed as a manager, specialist or trainee in a company outside the EU and are to be deployed for a limited period at a company location in Germany, an ICT (intra-corporate transfer) can make this possible. Self-employment and freelancing You can immigrate to Germany if you would like to work here on a self-employed or freelance basis. Au pair work, internships, voluntary service & other options There are a lot of ways that you can acquire key work experience in Germany - as an au pair, in voluntary service or by doing an internship for example. There are also arrangements enabling nationals of specific countries to work in Germany even if they have no professional qualifications. Further information Texts and articles Links Texts and articles Entry regulations Accelerated procedure for skilled workers Links Make it in Germany: Jobs Sub-pages on this topic Direkt zu Skilled workers with vocational training Skilled workers with an academic education Skilled workers without training Scientists Intra-corporate transfer Self-employment and freelancing Other options Page functions and information Link to social media Facebook To the BAMF account on Instagram To the BAMF account on LinkedIn To the BAMF account on Bluesky To the BAMF account on Mastodon To the BAMF account on Threads To the BAMF account on Xing To the BAMF account on Vimeo Newsletter FAQs & Contact Page functions Subnavigation of all website sections Topics Migration and residence Integration Asylum and international protection Return Service Service for citizens Advice at local level Service for other authorities Topics - Hotlines FAQs Imprint Data protection Accessibility User notes Sitemap © 2026 Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Note on the use of cookies Cookies make it easier for us to provide our services. When you use our services, you consent to us using cookies.” OK Survey of economic migrants starts in mid-March As part of the evaluation of the Act on the Further Development of Skilled Labour Immigration (FEG 2.0) , a survey of immigrants living in Germany since 2024 for employment and employment-related educational purposes will start on 16 March. The evaluation project is a cooperation between the BAMF Research Centre and the Institute for Employment Research (IAB). Further information can be found at the website of the Institute for Employment Research . close
