Visa Information - Federal Foreign Office Navigation and service Straight to: Content Main menu Search German Missions in the United States Page navigation Contact Open in a new tab EN DE Start search What are you looking for? Content Please enter a search term Search Number of results found No suitable keywords found. Please enter your complete search term. Close search Menu close Menu Embassy and Consulates Back to the first navigation level Embassy and Consulates Overview German Embassy Washington German Consulate General Atlanta German Consulate General Boston German Consulate General Chicago German Consulate General Houston German Consulate General Los Angeles German Consulate General Miami German Consulate General New York German Consulate General San Francisco Honorary Consuls in the US Corruption Prevention You are here: Consular Services Back to the first navigation level Consular Services Overview Service A-Z Consulate Finder Appointments Passports and ID Cards Family Matters German Citizenship Visa Information Certifications, Notarizations and Apostille Inheritance Matters Pension from Germany (Social Security) Taxes Honorary Consuls in the US Discover Germany Back to the first navigation level Discover Germany Overview Germany and the USA Business Jewish Life in Modern Germany and Historic Responsibility Language, Culture & Education Resources for You Berlin Wall Newsletters Back to the first navigation level Newsletters Overview Newsletter subscription Unsubscribe newsletter Start search Navigation Page navigation Contact Open in a new tab Start search Welcome Breadcrumbs Home Consular Services Visa Information NEW: Online Visa Application (for Residence Visa) If you are intending to move to Germany, please use the Consular Service Portal to apply for your visa. The types of visas you can apply for online include visas for the purpose of family reunion, most employment visas and the Opportunity Card, among others. Once you submit your documents, we will inform you whether these are complete. This will make your in-person appointment at the German mission quick and efficient: You will present your original documents, provide your biometric data (fingerprints and photo) and pay the application fee. For some visa categories, submitting an online application is not possible yet . If you would like to apply for a visa for the following categories, you still have to submit the application in person at the embassy: ICT-Card Research Au pair Please find further information about the application requirements here . Apply online now, through the Consular Services Portal Visa Information Digital registration of entry into the Schengen area ( EES ) A new IT system for the digital registration of entries and exits into and from the Schengen area ( EES = Entry/Exit System) will be introduced in all EU member states (except Cyprus and Ireland), as… 06.03.2020 Article Visa Navigator Which visa do I need for Germany? 23.03.2023 Article Schengen Visa A Schengen visa is required if you intend to stay in the Schengen area for up to 90 days within a 180 day period for business, visitor or tourist purposes. 21.01.2025 Article Residence Visa A residence visa is required if you intend to stay in Germany for more than 90 days for work or study or if you intend to move to Germany permanently. 30.04.2025 Article Abolition of the remonstration procedure from 1 July 2025 The Federal Foreign Office has decided to abolish the remonstration procedure for visa rejections worldwide from 1 July 2025. This eliminates a legal remedy in the visa application procedure… 07.06.2021 Article Airport Transit Visa Citizens of certain countries require an airport transit visa when flying via Germany to their final destination. 10.12.2020 Article Frequently Asked Questions Going to Germany? Take a moment to have a look at our FAQs before you call or contact us. ETIAS Information ETIAS travel authorization is an entry requirement for visa-exempt nationals traveling to any of the 30 European countries. Please note that ETIAS has been postponed until mid-2025. For any and all information regarding ETIAS , please only consult the official website: www.europa.eu/etias 24.04.2026 Article Information in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation ( EU ) 2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR) The Federal Foreign Office will use your personal data when processing your application. Personal data means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. The following… Overview "Consular Services" Share page Share page WhatsApp Facebook X Mail Top of page Footer German Missions USA Embassy Washington Consulate General Atlanta Consulate General Boston Consulate General Chicago Consulate General Houston Consulate General Los Angeles Consulate General Miami Consulate General New York Consulate General San Francisco Categories Service Discover Germany Newsletters More information Federal Foreign Office Website Deutschland.de Website Data Privacy Publication information Accessibility statement Preventing and dealing with sexual harassment Copyright &copy; 1995 – 2026 Federal Foreign Office Top of page
