BAMF - Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge - First steps Site navigation and service Go to: Content Main menu Search Service menu Contact English Deutsch Türkçe Русский Français العربية Main menu Topics Submenu from: Topics Information collection Careers Submenu from: Careers The press The authority Submenu from: The authority Sitemap Menu Search You are here: Homepage Topics Migration and residence Immigrants from third countries The information collection on migration First steps First steps in Germany , Date:&#32; 01/03/2024 , format:&#32; Article , area:&#32; Migration and residence Source: © iStock|Aramyan This content is also available in Deutsch Just arrived in Germany? You need to know the following: The residents' registration office Link to the information hotline &#034;working and living in Germany&#034; Source: © Make it in Germany Registration with the local residents' registration office ( Einwohnermeldeamt ) is compulsory in Germany. You must be registered in order to receive a tax identification number, for example. You will need to register within two weeks of taking up residence in an apartment. It is important to require confirmation from your landlord for this purpose. You will receive a registration certificate when you register. The immigration authorities If you are a third-country national, you must go to the immigration authority in person after arriving in Germany in order to apply for a residence title. The residence title will be issued according to the purpose of your stay, in the form of an electronic card (electronic residence title). Health insurance It is mandatory to have statutory or private health insurance in Germany. The health insurance fund covers the costs of any medical treatment that may be necessary. Training, education and studying A variety of learning and educational opportunities are available to your family members who accompany you to Germany. Your dependents can take up training or studies if they meet the relevant requirements; your children can go to school free of charge. Important information All children and juveniles living in Germany are required to attend school . Depending on the Federal Land, they usually have to attend a general education school for at least nine years from the age of six onwards . Children and juveniles with disabilities or special educational needs are also able to attend school. The competent education authority is responsible for deciding on the enrolment of newly-immigrated children. They may also enrol intra-year. The majority of schools are state-run and thus free of charge. The following is also important: Opening a bank account: It makes sense to open a German bank account if you stay for a prolonged period in Germany. This makes it easier to transfer payments, such as rent and wages. Validation of your driving licence: You can drive in Germany for up to six months with a foreign driving licence. You may be required to acquire a German driving licence after six months. Make it in Germany: First 100 days in Germany Further information Texts and articles Links Texts and articles Family Advice for adults Integration courses Links Web portal "Recognition in Germany" Federal Ministry of Finance Jobbörse of the Federal Employment Agency Make it in Germany: Looking for housing Page functions and information Link to social media Facebook To the BAMF account on Instagram To the BAMF account on LinkedIn To the BAMF account on Bluesky To the BAMF account on Mastodon To the BAMF account on Threads To the BAMF account on Xing To the BAMF account on Vimeo Newsletter FAQs & Contact Page functions Subnavigation of all website sections Topics Migration and residence Integration Asylum and international protection Return Service Service for citizens Advice at local level Service for other authorities Topics - Hotlines FAQs Imprint Data protection Accessibility User notes Sitemap © 2026 Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Note on the use of cookies Cookies make it easier for us to provide our services. When you use our services, you consent to us using cookies.” OK Survey of economic migrants starts in mid-March As part of the evaluation of the Act on the Further Development of Skilled Labour Immigration (FEG 2.0) , a survey of immigrants living in Germany since 2024 for employment and employment-related educational purposes will start on 16 March. The evaluation project is a cooperation between the BAMF Research Centre and the Institute for Employment Research (IAB). Further information can be found at the website of the Institute for Employment Research . close
