BAMF - Bundesamt für Migration und Flüchtlinge - Family Site navigation and service Go to: Content Main menu Search Service menu Contact English Deutsch Türkçe Русский Français العربية Main menu Topics Submenu from: Topics Information collection Careers Submenu from: Careers The press The authority Submenu from: The authority Sitemap Menu Search You are here: Homepage Topics Migration and residence Immigrants from third countries Family Family reunification Spouses and registered partners, parents and minor, unmarried children may migrate to Germany in order to join their family members in order to protect the institution of marriage and the family. This content is also available in Deutsch Family reunification Link to the information hotline &#034;working and living in Germany&#034; Source: © Make it in Germany 01.03.2024 Spouses and registered partners, parents and minor, unmarried children may migrate to Germany in order to join their family members in order to protect the institution of marriage and the family. As a matter of principle, the conditions vary according to whether you wish to come to Germany to join a German national , an EU citizen or a third-country national . Family members coming to Germany for the purpose of family reunification are allowed to work in Germany. The legal basis Section 27 et seqq. of the Residence Act Section 3 of the EU Freedom of Movement Act (FreizügG/EU) Sub-pages on this topic Direkt zu Subsequent immigration to join German nationals Reunification with EU nationals Subsequent immigration to join third-country nationals Further information Texts and articles Texts and articles First steps Page functions and information Link to social media Facebook To the BAMF account on Instagram To the BAMF account on LinkedIn To the BAMF account on Bluesky To the BAMF account on Mastodon To the BAMF account on Threads To the BAMF account on Xing To the BAMF account on Vimeo Newsletter FAQs & Contact Page functions Subnavigation of all website sections Topics Migration and residence Integration Asylum and international protection Return Service Service for citizens Advice at local level Service for other authorities Topics - Hotlines FAQs Imprint Data protection Accessibility User notes Sitemap © 2026 Federal Office for Migration and Refugees. Note on the use of cookies Cookies make it easier for us to provide our services. When you use our services, you consent to us using cookies.” OK Survey of economic migrants starts in mid-March As part of the evaluation of the Act on the Further Development of Skilled Labour Immigration (FEG 2.0) , a survey of immigrants living in Germany since 2024 for employment and employment-related educational purposes will start on 16 March. The evaluation project is a cooperation between the BAMF Research Centre and the Institute for Employment Research (IAB). Further information can be found at the website of the Institute for Employment Research . close
